1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[42537,["/_next/static/chunks/28s_919ugnaab.js","/_next/static/chunks/3ho1p9k3k__t-.js","/_next/static/chunks/3pg10nxpz3p4y.js","/_next/static/chunks/2yyb9gnunbdwh.js","/_next/static/chunks/3k0oee9ka4dyd.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js","/_next/static/chunks/2omrn8bvkt6m0.js","/_next/static/chunks/1lul02ydfvxsh.js"],"ProjectsWorkbench"]
9:I[97367,["/_next/static/chunks/28s_919ugnaab.js","/_next/static/chunks/3ho1p9k3k__t-.js","/_next/static/chunks/3pg10nxpz3p4y.js","/_next/static/chunks/2yyb9gnunbdwh.js","/_next/static/chunks/3k0oee9ka4dyd.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js"],"OutletBoundary"]
a:"$Sreact.suspense"
3:T40a,The design starts from one constraint and builds outward from it: a single pure function, stepMatch, advances the entire match state by exactly one 1/60-second tick and touches nothing outside its arguments, no DOM, no Canvas, no timers, no random number generator. A course is generated once from an integer seed via a small seeded PRNG and stored as an immutable array shared by both lanes, so a human runner dying never changes what obstacles the AI runner sees next. On top of that core sits a narrow AgentActionSource interface (reset(seed), nextAction(observation)), the entire contract a controller has to satisfy. The autonomous entries implement seven strategies: an open-loop cadence timer that does not inspect obstacles, a fixed-distance reflex threshold, a periodically sampled time-to-collision heuristic, a small approach/duck/recover state machine, a closed-form ballistic jump-window solver, and two model-predictive controllers that roll the ballistic solver forward over a bounded or full-course observation window.4:T404,Only the S0-S3 and C0-C3 tiers are implemented. Harder compositional tiers were deferred at the design stage and never built, so the benchmark's conclusions apply to single-primitive-through-three-primitive tasks, not beyond. The sequence-track LSTM protocol was substantially upgraded partway through the project specifically because an earlier baseline run was judged too weak to trust, which is the right call, but the resulting negative verdicts remain specific to the upgraded protocol: five seeds, 1,000 samples, 200 epochs, weight decay and learning-rate scheduling. Those choices do not rule out optimization or architecture limits as contributors to failure. No deployed service, API, or web UI exists. This is a local, CLI-driven pipeline that writes artifacts to disk. It is also a solo, three-day build (52 commits over three days, one author): the task-by-task discipline is real and verifiable, but it is the discipline of one person working fast with a documented process, not independent code review from a team.5:T45b,Stage 1 passed its exit gate, and by then the policy's WAIT rate had already fallen to 3.4 percent against the v6 baseline of 63 to 74 percent. Stage 2 cleared every rung on the ladder, holding the top rung, MCTS at 256 simulations, across two probes at scores of 0.656 and 0.641: the IL-trained student was beating the same class of model used as its own teacher in roughly 64 to 69 percent of noise-off diagnostic probes. The last five iterations of Stage 2 recorded a WAIT rate of 17.7 percent, still below the v6 baseline. These stage summaries are not a matched evaluation comparison. Stage 3 then ran guarded self-play for 40 more iterations and reached a plateau: the smoothed top-rung win-rate criterion held on all 8 probes, and by iteration 105 every one of the six behavioral gates had passed at least once over the course of the run, flame-timing, the last to do so, passing for the first time at that exact iteration. The canary criterion, at least 4 of 6 gates passing per probe, was still met in only 3 of 8 probes, short of the 6 of 8 required, and the pre-registered rule for that outcome was stop.0:{"rsc":["$","$1","c",{"children":[["$","main",null,{"id":"main-content","tabIndex":-1,"className":"mx-auto w-full max-w-[1800px] flex-1 px-4 py-8 sm:px-6 lg:px-8","children":["$","$L2",null,{"projects":[{"slug":"dawn","startDate":"2024-02","name":"Dawn","summary":"ResMed's AI-powered digital sleep-health assistant. I was one of the engineers who built it.","description":"Dawn is ResMed's generative-AI digital assistant for sleep health. I contributed to building Dawn as part of my machine-learning engineering work at ResMed. Public information about the product is described on ResMed's own channels. My personal contributions are described here only at the level that is public-safe.","status":"active","category":"healthcare-ml","context":"ResMed","location":"San Diego, CA","skills":["Conversational AI","LLM systems","Production ML"],"technologies":["LLMs","Python","Cloud infrastructure"],"currentTools":["LangGraph","RAG","Terraform","AWS","PyTorch"],"metrics":["1.5M+ beta enquiries (publicly reported product milestone)"],"tags":["machine learning","data science","healthcare","conversational ai","agents","generative ai","sleep"],"media":[{"type":"image","src":"/images/dawn/concept-overview.png","width":1672,"height":941,"alt":"Concept illustration of Dawn across desktop and mobile myAir surfaces; representative portfolio artwork rather than a literal product screenshot"}],"tryIt":{"url":"https://myair.resmed.com","label":"Try Dawn in myAir","note":"Dawn is available to myAir users in the app and on the web (US launch, September 2024)."},"contributions":["Built Dawn largely from the ground up as one of its core engineers, from early architecture through production launch.","Built both of Dawn's surfaces, the myAir app experience and the web experience, on a single shared backend."],"confidentiality":"pattern","featured":true,"hasPage":true,"caveats":["Dawn is a ResMed product built by a team. This page describes the product from public sources and my role at a public-safe level, without internal implementation details."],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"What Dawn is","body":["Dawn is ResMed's generative-AI sleep-health assistant. It launched September 30, 2024 for CPAP therapy users in the US, inside the myAir app and on the web. Users can ask about ResMed products, their therapy, and their equipment in plain language at any hour. In myAir, Dawn may also use limited sleep-therapy and connected health-app data when that feature is available to the user.","The boundary matters as much as the capability: ResMed describes Dawn as an experimental AI assistant, not a human or a substitute for a qualified healthcare provider. It can explain, coach, and troubleshoot, but its answers can still be incomplete or wrong. That public framing captures the kind of product we were trying to build—support that is easier to reach without pretending that an AI conversation replaces care."]},{"heading":"What it does for users","body":["Starting therapy creates questions that rarely arrive on a clinic's schedule: mask comfort, unfamiliar scores, troubleshooting, or whether a small change is normal. Dawn gives people a place to ask those questions between appointments and receive explanations and therapy tips based on the context available in myAir.","In June 2026, ResMed AI leader Philomena Lamoureux publicly reported that Dawn had crossed 1.5 million enquiries in beta. Her post described the goal as making support easier to access in vulnerable, ordinary moments—not replacing human care—and explicitly named me among the Dawn team. The 1.5 million figure is a product-and-team milestone, not a claim that I produced that outcome alone."]},{"heading":"My role","body":["I built Dawn largely from the ground up as one of its core machine-learning engineers, from early architecture through production launch. One backend powers both surfaces, the myAir app experience and the web experience, and I built both.","The engineering foundation came out of platform work I did as a founding engineer on ResMed's internal GenAI platform: retrieval-augmented generation infrastructure, agent architectures, evaluation pipelines, and the security hardening a healthcare launch requires. Finer-grained contribution detail is being extracted from repository history and will land here once confirmed."]},{"heading":"Sources","body":["Product behavior and safety boundaries come from ResMed's official About Dawn, myAir, and September 2024 launch materials. The 1.5 million beta-enquiry milestone and public team acknowledgement come from Philomena Lamoureux's June 2026 LinkedIn post. I keep those public product facts separate from the contribution statements above, which describe my own role."]}],"related":["dusk","comisa-modeling","lifeline"]},{"slug":"dusk","startDate":"2025-05","endDate":"2026-05","name":"Dusk","summary":"ResMed's public AI-powered sleep coach, with natural voice support, adaptive guidance, and personalized CBT-I plans. IP pending for the multi-agent CBT-I system.","description":"Dusk is now publicly presented by ResMed as a free, intelligent sleep-support coach designed to make personalized guidance available between moments of care. I built the underlying system from the ground up at ResMed, including its multi-agent architecture, retrieval, persistent memory, voice interaction, and supporting backend. ResMed's public page confirms its adaptive guidance, natural voice assistance, personalized CBT-I plans, and general-wellness boundary.","status":"active","category":"agents","secondaryCategories":["healthcare-ml"],"context":"ResMed","location":"San Diego, CA","skills":["Agent architecture","RAG","Conversational AI","Voice interfaces","Backend systems"],"technologies":["LangChain","RAG","Speech-to-text","Text-to-speech","Python"],"tags":["machine learning","data science","healthcare","agents","rag","voice","cbt-i","conversational ai","generative ai"],"media":[{"type":"image","src":"/images/dusk/capability-architecture.png","width":1672,"height":941,"alt":"Capability-level Dusk architecture showing conversation, context, agent reasoning, safety boundaries, and guided response with continuity across the conversation"}],"liveUrl":"https://www.resmed.com/en-us/sleep-health/sleep-apnea/dusk/","tryIt":{"url":"https://www.resmed.com/en-us/sleep-health/sleep-apnea/dusk/","label":"Visit Dusk on ResMed","note":"ResMed's official Dusk page includes the public product description and signup to try it."},"notice":{"label":"IP pending","detail":"Multi-agent system for CBT-I, reference P2852US1 (P+S 157222)","href":"https://www.linkedin.com/in/plamoureux"},"contributions":["Built Dusk from the ground up: the agent architecture, RAG pipeline, memory system, voice stack, and supporting backend."],"confidentiality":"pattern","featured":true,"hasPage":true,"caveats":["Dusk is now publicly described by ResMed, but my implementation details remain proprietary and are limited here to public-safe capability patterns.","IP is pending for the multi-agent CBT-I system. Public inventor profiles list reference P2852US1 (P+S 157222); I did not find a published patent application or grant and do not represent it as one."],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"What Dusk is","body":["ResMed now publicly describes Dusk as a free, private, personal, and empathetic sleep-support coach. It offers natural hands-free voice support, answers questions day or night, and adapts its guidance to how someone feels, sleeps, and moves through everyday life.","The product creates personalized CBT-I plans and turns sleep and behavior expertise into practical daily guidance. ResMed is equally explicit about the boundary: Dusk is for general wellness and information, not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment."]},{"heading":"Architecture (capability level)","body":["An agent-based architecture with specialized agents for distinct responsibilities, retrieval-augmented generation over curated knowledge, custom persistent user-specific memory, LangChain orchestration, speech-to-text and text-to-speech for full voice interaction, and a complete supporting backend."]},{"heading":"IP pending","body":["The multi-agent CBT-I system is associated with a pending intellectual-property filing, publicly listed as P2852US1 (P+S reference 157222). This is a pending filing reference, not a patent grant. The public listing corroborates the multi-agent CBT-I direction without disclosing the implementation."]},{"heading":"Public sources","body":["The product description, signup availability, voice support, personalized CBT-I plans, and general-wellness boundary come from ResMed's official Dusk page. The pending-IP title and reference appear on public inventor profiles. No separate ResMed newsroom announcement or published patent document surfaced in the search, so I do not claim either exists."]}],"related":["dawn","comisa-modeling","lifeline"]},{"slug":"comisa-modeling","startDate":"2026-04","name":"COMISA Modeling","summary":"Current work: modeling for comorbid insomnia and sleep apnea (COMISA).","description":"My current focus at ResMed is modeling work around COMISA (comorbid insomnia and sleep apnea). Details, metrics, and outcomes are not published. This entry will grow as public-safe results are confirmed.","status":"research","category":"healthcare-ml","context":"ResMed","location":"San Diego, CA","skills":["Machine learning","Clinical modeling"],"technologies":["Python"],"tags":["machine learning","data science","healthcare","sleep","comisa","modeling"],"confidentiality":"pattern","featured":false,"hasPage":false,"caveats":["Current proprietary work. No technical details or results published."],"related":["dawn","dusk"]},{"slug":"mmg","startDate":"2026-07","name":"OSRS Market Tools (MMG)","summary":"An OSRS market-analysis app whose research found predictive skill, losing trades, and a label bug that changed what four hours meant.","description":"I built browser tools for comparing Old School RuneScape money-making methods and Grand Exchange margins, then tested whether price forecasts could support trading decisions. Historical studies reported predictive gains but losing trading strategies. An exact-horizon rebuild redirected the research toward risk context, and a later audit found feature and freshness defects that require revalidation before those gains can support the displayed rankings.","status":"active","category":"ml-research","context":"Personal","skills":["Time-series ML","Evaluation methodology","Data pipelines","Full-stack development"],"technologies":["Python","Pandas","OSRS Wiki API"],"tags":["machine learning","data science","data engineering","games","time series","market analysis","osrs","research methodology","financial forecasting","honest negative results"],"liveUrl":"https://osrs-mmg-analyzer.pages.dev","notice":{"label":"Historical research under review","detail":"A September source audit found future-dependent features and incorrect item freshness. The scores below are historical exploratory results awaiting revalidation, with metric impact still unmeasured.","href":"/data/mmg/audit-summary.json"},"metrics":["Historical research scope: 4,420 items, 627 money-making methods, and 1.55M observations; live catalog counts change","Direction prediction: 57.43% accuracy vs 54.86% baseline (95% CI 56.76 to 58.14)","Next-day volatility: 30.4% MAE improvement over rolling baseline","Tax-hurdle selection: 0.727 ROC-AUC, 2.65x precision lift","Tax math audit: 50,512 browser vs backend comparisons, zero mismatches"],"tryIt":{"url":"https://osrs-mmg-analyzer.pages.dev","label":"Open the live analyzer","note":"The core analyzer and scanner use public OSRS Wiki prices without an account. On September 20, the optional research snapshot was still dated July 11, and account workflows remained unverified."},"media":[{"type":"image","src":"/images/mmg/trends-2026-09-18.jpg","width":1265,"height":712,"alt":"MMG Trends page on September 18, 2026, showing all five page links, the unavailable local-helper state, and the age of its published research snapshot."},{"type":"image","src":"/images/mmg/mmg-live-demo.gif","width":1568,"height":778,"alt":"Animated walkthrough of the live analyzer: the ranked money-making methods table with live Grand Exchange prices, then the GE Flipping margin scanner"},{"type":"image","src":"/images/mmg/mmg-methods-dashboard.png","width":1568,"height":778,"alt":"Money-making methods dashboard: 629 methods tracked and ranked by profit per hour, with live prices, category filters, plan horizons, and bankroll input"},{"type":"image","src":"/images/mmg/mmg-flip-scanner.png","width":1568,"height":778,"alt":"GE Flipping scanner: 4,436 items scanned with post-tax margins, ROI, buy limits, daily volume, and price-freshness columns"}],"confidentiality":"public","featured":true,"hasPage":true,"caveats":["Unofficial fan tooling, not affiliated with or endorsed by Jagex. Old School RuneScape is a trademark of Jagex Ltd.","Price data sourced from the community-run OSRS Wiki real-time prices API, with attribution. Figures can be stale or incomplete.","Analysis and research only. No trading automation is exposed, and ML output is research-only, never a trade signal."],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"A useful forecast can still lose money","figure":"demo","body":["MMG began with a practical market question: which Old School RuneScape money-making methods and item flips are worth considering at current prices? The browser tools calculate margins and compare methods from public Grand Exchange data. The research asks a harder question, whether predicting future prices adds enough value to justify a trade.","The evaluated trading strategies lost money after costs, even where historical studies reported gains over prediction baselines. A label audit found that many returns called four-hour returns covered a different elapsed time. Repairing that target redirected the research toward risk context, but did not finish the validity work: a September source audit found future-dependent features and incorrect per-item freshness. The calculator remains independently useful, while model-driven rankings still need revalidation."]},{"heading":"The price move has to pay for the trade","figure":"dashboard","body":["The Grand Exchange is a shared marketplace with changing prices, limited liquidity, and a tax on completed sales. In the research cost model, the sale tax is 2%, rounded down and capped at 5,000,000 gp per item. A profitable round trip must also cover the bid-ask spread and slippage. Predicting the direction of the midpoint is therefore only part of the decision.","This separates the calculator from the forecaster. The calculator applies known arithmetic to observed prices, while the forecaster estimates an uncertain future outcome. Even a well-calibrated probability of a rise cannot promise that an order fills at the displayed price or that the rise exceeds the full cost of execution. I kept those questions separate in both evaluation and the public interface."]},{"heading":"A public calculator with optional services","figure":"architecture","body":["Five static pages cover money-making methods, GE flipping, trends, bankroll planning, and data/settings. The core calculations run in the visitor’s browser against public OSRS Wiki prices. That keeps the useful arithmetic independent of model serving or an account. An optional local-first FastAPI service adds collected history, a SQLite archive, feature and label builders, and research routes.","Selected research estimates and forecasts can load from published JSON snapshots without the local service. Method and GE history, planner profile sync, and Hiscores import have additional helper requirements. The frontend attempts loopback access when browser policy allows it and blocks remote plain-HTTP helpers from the HTTPS site. Browser policy, CORS, and reachability still determine whether that connection works.","A separate Postgres-backed accounts service implements registration, login, token refresh, browser-state sync, and subscription state. Live research routes have subscription checks, while static snapshots are ungated. Checkout remains a development test flow. This architecture gives the static product a usable core, but also creates separate questions about market freshness, snapshot age, helper availability, and account readiness."]},{"heading":"Freeze the data before judging a model","body":["The collector records five-minute, hourly, and daily price bars into SQLite. Keyed inserts avoid duplicate rows, and startup and hourly gap-repair attempts help recover missing history. The price archive is retained separately from operational audit records. These mechanisms support a growing history without proving continuous collection or complete recovery from every outage.","Completed days can be compacted into Zstandard Parquet through DuckDB, and research exports freeze an immutable dataset for each experiment. A run then reads the same data throughout its evaluation instead of a database changing underneath it. Invalid market observations are excluded rather than repaired with guessed prices.","The intraday features describe returns, spreads, trend, volume, cyclical time, price level, and liquidity. Direction models estimate the chance of a threshold rise, while quantile models estimate the range of possible returns. Calibration and residual-based widening make uncertainty part of the output. Walk-forward splits train on the past and test later periods, with an embargo at least as long as the prediction horizon."]},{"heading":"The first edge did not clear the costs","figure":"results","body":["The daily feasibility study used 1.55 million observations across 4,420 items from a public price snapshot. Direction accuracy reached 57.43% against a 54.86% majority-class baseline. The tax-hurdle classifier also found ranking signal, with 0.727 ROC-AUC and 45.7% precision among selected calls against a 17.2% base rate. Acting on those selections still lost 1,529,993 gp across 1,629 trades.","The original intraday study reported 74.0% direction accuracy against a 68.5% majority baseline and Brier skill of +0.19. A separate mechanical EMA crossover backtest on the intraday collection lost 75,099,719 gp across 47,203 trades. That rule was not a direct deployment of the classifier, so its loss does not by itself measure the classifier’s trading value. Alongside the daily proxy and later model-signal backtest, it showed why prediction metrics could not serve as the product’s trading acceptance gate.","The detailed experiments below retain the original setups and results. The intraday numbers also need the label correction that follows: their row-count horizon cannot be treated as an exact four-hour measurement."]},{"heading":"Four hours cannot be counted in rows","body":["The original intraday label builder shifted a price series forward by 48 rows. With uninterrupted five-minute bars that spans four hours. With missing bars, it reaches further into the future. The model was being asked a variable-horizon question under a fixed-horizon name.","The continuity audit of the top 100 items scanned 839,687 rows and found 22,830 interior gaps. Of 834,887 row-shift labels, only 580,076 landed exactly 14,400 seconds later, a correct share of 69.48%. The repair joined targets by the exact timestamp offset and restarted rolling features at gaps. The resulting research dataset contains 802,443 rows across 789 items. That broader dataset and the continuity audit cover different item groups, so their row counts are not a before-and-after size comparison.","This changed how the earlier evidence could be read. A walk-forward split does not repair a mislabeled horizon, and the old and corrected model scores are not a controlled before-and-after comparison of algorithm quality. The rebuild establishes what each target means before asking whether a model predicts it."]},{"heading":"A narrower direction, still needing validation","figure":"flip-scanner","body":["The historical reports motivated a shift toward risk and ranking, with distinct measurements. In the daily study, next-day volatility MAE improved by 30.4% over a rolling baseline, and next-day spread MAE improved by 6.2% over today’s spread, with 0.582 rank correlation. The corrected four-hour study reported 12.40% volatility MAE skill and 15.29% future-spread MAE skill against calibration-selected naive baselines. These belong to different horizons and datasets, and the later source audit means they remain exploratory evidence rather than validation of the displayed rankings.","The corrected study still did not validate trading recommendations. Only about 2.2% of its examples cleared the conservative tax, spread, and slippage hurdle, and its combined execution proxy remained negative. The product direction became risk context and margin-compression estimates, with trade signals parked until conservative, liquidity-aware backtests across multiple regimes and paper trading support them.","Abstention is part of that boundary. In one historical scoring run, 725 predictions narrowed to 18 candidate signals and all were suppressed by freshness checks. That successful check in the legacy scoring path does not validate the newer serving path, whose item-level freshness was later found to be wrong. A model confidence score cannot make an old observation current."]},{"heading":"A working page is only one service boundary","figure":"runtime-evidence","body":["The September 18 check opened all five public pages, and the analyzer and scanner displayed live-price data. On September 20, the published research manifest was still dated July 11. The accounts health endpoint responded, but database readiness timed out. These observations describe different parts of the product, so a successful page load cannot stand in for fresh research or a functioning account.","The later browser check found a more specific mismatch. Celastrus bark showed current prices beside the research labels Low risk and upward margin, even though the record was marked gated and the published snapshot was roughly 72 days old. Its tooltip still reported an age of 140 hours. No expired forecast cone was observed against the current price chart, but stale risk and direction labels were visible.","Tutorial dismissal worked in the September 20 check. Hosted login, session refresh, state sync, and planner editing remain unverified. The dated Trends capture below records the earlier helper-unavailable state and published-snapshot age."]},{"heading":"The next audit went beyond the labels","figure":"feature-timing","figureExpandable":false,"body":["The exact-horizon repair fixed the target, but future observations still affected the inputs. The builder joined future bars before calculating cross-item ranks. Removing one item’s future bar could therefore change another item’s present-time feature even when their observed histories stayed identical. An isolated before-and-after reproduction makes that dependency visible below.","The September 20 local repair builds current features and their comparison groups first. Training labels are attached afterward at the exact four-hour timestamp, while inference keeps a separate unlabelled artifact. Rolling features use the full available history before training rows are selected. Missing targets and unknown tax metadata remain unknown. Extreme future moves stay in the data with an explicit flag.","That changes the model’s input contract. The loader refuses historical weights and requires matching feature order, configuration, schema, and artifact hashes. Compatible datasets and models have not been rebuilt or trained. The synthetic checks establish specific software invariants, and the old performance scores cannot be carried forward to these new inputs. The exact displayed risk-adjusted ranking still needs its own evaluation."]},{"heading":"Give each estimate its own expiry","figure":"displayed-ranking","figureExpandable":false,"body":["The serving boundary asks whether inputs are valid and whether they are still current. Each daily and intraday estimate has its own source interval, issue time, target, and expiry. Publishing an old snapshot again cannot renew it. Expired records lose their current rank, risk label, direction, and forecast, and cannot change the comparison group for a current item’s relative risk. Earlier browser fixtures showed estimates disappearing at expiry while historical prices and deterministic calculations stayed usable.","The new intraday loader is deliberately strict about missing inputs. If any requested item’s latest row is ineligible or nonfinite, the whole requested batch is unavailable. It does not substitute an older row or invent an imputation rule. Because observed receipt times are absent, availability still uses explicit interval-end and daily-date-end assumptions. Later metadata snapshots cannot fill earlier gaps. These rules sacrifice availability rather than silently treating an unknown input as known.","The component evaluator checks the training-data contract before fitting and requires a new output file, so it cannot silently replace a historical result. Completed outputs bind data, configuration, source, and dependency identities. Synthetic checks verified those safeguards with fitting intercepted.","A separate retained-record evaluator now reuses the ranking function used by serving. It selects the top candidates before reading their later outcomes, and compares spread ordering on the same eligible items. Missing outcomes do not trigger replacement selections. This tests the ordering within the eligibility rules, while leaving the value of those rules as a separate question. The synthetic example below shows why evaluating probability alone would miss the displayed decision.","These repairs remain local source checkpoints. The public MMG application has not received them. The downloadable records distinguish synthetic backend checks, earlier browser fixtures with mocked services, and dated public observations. Real-data rebuilding, compatible model training, real evaluation of the displayed ranking, and hosted acceptance remain separate work. Historical numerical results retain their unresolved bias, and no model-quality improvement is claimed."]}],"experiments":[{"id":"daily-horizon-feasibility","title":"Daily-horizon feasibility study","date":"2026-07","status":"completed","sections":[{"heading":"Setup","body":["Built a daily-bar research dataset from a public Kaggle snapshot of GE prices (CC BY 4.0, 1.55 million observations across 4,420 items, 2021-2026), cross-checked against 50 items from Weird Gloop's independent historical archive (60.2% daily-direction agreement, under 1% median price difference between the two sources). Trained a small family of models, a persistence baseline, a smoothed-trend model, ridge regression, gradient-boosted trees, a direction classifier, and a tax-hurdle classifier, on time-based splits with a purge-and-embargo gap between train and test windows. Separately audited the tax and fee math itself: 50,512 browser-versus-backend tax comparisons across every mapped item and boundary price, zero mismatches."]},{"heading":"Result","body":["Direction accuracy reached 57.43% against a 54.86% majority-class baseline, a 2.51-2.90 percentage point edge that held across all three walk-forward regimes tested, not one favorable split. The tax-hurdle classifier, trained to flag next-daily-midpoint rises above 2.1% as an approximate tax threshold, reached a 0.727 ROC-AUC and 45.7% precision on its selected calls against a 17.2% base rate, a reported 2.65x lift. The separate tax-aware holding proxy still lost 1,529,993 gp across 1,629 selected trades, a 33.7% win rate and a -3.06% mean trade ROI, and a separate uncertainty-abstention rule that let through only its single most confident trade also lost money on that one trade."]},{"heading":"What it changed","body":["The report ruled out a profitability claim, automation, or a live \"buy now\" badge from this model. That verdict set the template the rest of the project followed: prioritize the historical risk-oriented results for further validation, keep anything resembling a trade recommendation out of the product, and test the same question again on faster, higher-resolution data before drawing a final conclusion."]}]},{"id":"label-integrity-audit-v2","title":"Label-integrity audit and exact-horizon v2 rebuild","date":"2026-07","status":"completed","previousSummary":"The daily-bar study reported a small directional accuracy improvement (57.43% vs. a 54.86% baseline) and improvements on risk-forecasting metrics, but its own tax-aware backtest lost 1.53M gp across 1,629 trades, so no daily trade signal shipped. The natural follow-up was to test the same question on faster, higher-resolution 5-minute data, using the same horizon-48 convention (48 five-minute bars, meant to represent 4 hours ahead) the intraday pipeline already used to build training labels.","sections":[{"heading":"Setup","body":["An audit ran against the top 100 items by volume to check what \"four hours\" actually meant inside the label-building code, since a label was built by shifting each row 48 places forward and calling that \"4 hours later\" without checking whether 48 five-minute bars had actually elapsed. 839,687 rows were scanned for interior gaps in the 5-minute series."]},{"heading":"Result","body":["22,830 interior gaps turned up in that scan. Of the 834,887 labels built by the 48-row shift, only 580,076 were actually 14,400 seconds (4 real hours) apart, 69.48%. The other roughly 30% were built across some other span entirely, usually longer, because a gap in the data meant the 48th row forward was more than 4 hours away. The audit's own summary of the problem: counting 48 buses does not measure four hours if some buses never came."]},{"heading":"What it changed","body":["The label builder was rebuilt to join every label at the exact wall-clock offset (bucket_ts + 14,400 seconds) instead of a row count, and to restart its rolling-feature windows at every gap rather than let them silently span one. The corrected \"v2\" dataset contains 802,443 exact-horizon rows across 789 items and 8,669 distinct market buckets (the same 2026-06-04 to 2026-07-04 window), with a 22.88% base rate for a 1%+ price rise and a 2.19% base rate for a trade still positive after tax, spread, and slippage. The continuity audit covered the top 100 items and this rebuilt dataset covers 789, so those row counts are not a before-and-after comparison. Exact horizons repair the target timing, but a September source audit found future-dependent feature construction. Its effect on these historical metrics remains unmeasured, and they require revalidation."]}]},{"id":"intraday-classifier-tax-hurdle","title":"Intraday direction classifier and tax-hurdle backtest","date":"2026-07","status":"completed","previousSummary":"The exact-horizon audit found that the original intraday label-building convention, shifting 48 rows forward and calling it \"4 hours,\" was only actually a 4-hour gap 69.48% of the time once real data gaps were accounted for. The rebuilt v2 dataset (802,443 rows, 789 items) joins every label at the true wall-clock offset instead. The direction classifier and backtest below were run on the original 30-day intraday collection using the same horizon-48 convention the audit flagged, worth keeping in mind when reading the accuracy number; the risk-model results that follow were measured on the exact-horizon v2 data. A later source audit found future-dependent features and serving defects, so these remain historical exploratory measurements pending revalidation.","sections":[{"heading":"Setup","body":["A 30-day backfill collected 12,989,122 real five-minute price bars (2026-06-04 to 2026-07-04) across roughly 1,200 liquid items (daily volume at least 5,000), costing about 8,450 API requests over roughly 2.9 hours at the collector's rate limit. A LightGBM direction classifier was trained on about 5.5 million labelled rows with 4-fold walk-forward validation and an embargo at least as long as the prediction horizon, to estimate the probability that an item's midpoint return would be at least 1% over the next 4 hours."]},{"heading":"Result","body":["The classifier reached 74.0% direction accuracy against a 68.5% base rate (always predicting no rise of at least 1%), a +5.5 percentage point edge, with a Brier skill of +0.19, a positive historical result against the constant-probability baseline. A separate mechanical 12/48-bar EMA crossover rule, rather than a direct deployment of that classifier, taxed at 2% with 5 basis points of slippage and volume-capped fills, lost 75,099,719 gp across 47,203 trades: a 21.2% win rate, a profit factor of 0.14, and a -5.1% mean return per trade. Live-scoring the trained model separately produced 725 predictions, narrowed to 18 candidate signals, all 18 of which were suppressed by the staleness gate before reaching a UI, a successful check in that legacy scoring path, separate from the newer item-freshness defect found in September."]},{"heading":"What it changed","body":["Three evaluated approaches had negative aggregate backtests: the daily proxy, this mechanical intraday rule, and a later backtest of the model's own trading signals under realistic fill assumptions (see the results figures below). That result is what the project's planning doc formally calls the direction realignment: park the trade-signal stack, keep the champion and drift-monitoring plumbing wired up but silent, and prioritize volatility and spread forecasting for further research. The September source audit requires point-in-time feature and serving repairs before those risk and ranking features can be revalidated. The project's own framing of the underlying reason: in a taxed market a forecast has to be correct by more than the toll, not just correct."]}]}]},{"slug":"dino-arena","startDate":"2026-07","name":"Dino Arena","summary":"A deterministic runner for comparing hand-written controllers with explicit observation and planning budgets.","description":"Deterministic, seeded two-lane browser runner built for human-vs-agent play and reinforcement-learning evaluation. One headless simulation drives the browser game, a controller roster, and a benchmark harness.","status":"active","category":"games-simulation","context":"Personal","skills":["Simulation design","RL evaluation","TypeScript"],"technologies":["TypeScript","Canvas","Headless simulation"],"tags":["reinforcement learning","simulation","games","benchmarking"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/dino-arena","media":[{"type":"image","src":"/images/dino-arena/concept-arena.png","width":1672,"height":941,"alt":"Concept illustration of the Dino Arena deterministic runner and controller benchmark dashboard; representative artwork for the live project"}],"metrics":["12/12 tests pass (~0.8s); npm run lint and npm run build both clean","Historical benchmark, 9 fixed seeds: analytical solver and 2 rollout controllers clear all 9","3 reactive heuristics clear 0% of seeds, 9-29% median course progress","1,351 lines of simulation + test logic (core.ts 509, agents.ts 435, renderer.ts 240, tests 167)"],"confidentiality":"public","featured":true,"hasPage":true,"caveats":["No trained model exists in this repo. The roster contains seven hand-written autonomous policies and one manual keyboard mode. The RL-shaped DinoEnvironment adapter (reset/step/serialize with a reward signal) is scaffolding, not a finished training pipeline."],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"Overview","body":["Dino Arena is a dinosaur-runner browser game rebuilt from the ground up so its simulation is completely deterministic: same seed, same actions in, same outcome out, every time, independent of frame rate, wall-clock time, or Math.random. That property is what turns a toy game into a real evaluation harness. The repo ships eight opponent controllers, from a keyboard-passthrough practice mode up through an open-loop timer, three reactive heuristics, a closed-form analytical solver, and two model-predictive planners, plus a benchmark script that runs the exact same headless simulation the browser uses across nine fixed seeds.","In the July audit at c722e52, the analytical controller Arc Analyst and the two rollout planners, Horizon Scout and Course Cartographer, clear the course on 100% of seeds, while the three reactive heuristics land between 9% and 29% median course progress and never clear a single seed. Both the algorithms and their observation scopes differ, so this benchmark describes the complete controllers rather than isolating the benefit of planning. The real engineering decision is not the dinosaur game itself, it is that the same 509-line simulation module drives a requestAnimationFrame canvas loop in the browser and a plain Node for loop in tests and the benchmark script, through a shared state-transition function"]},{"heading":"The problem","body":["Browser runner games built for humans, the Chrome offline dinosaur game and its many clones, couple their physics to render timing and generate obstacles with unseeded randomness. That is fine for a person playing casually, but it makes the game useless as a benchmark: run the same controller against it twice and it faces two different obstacle courses, so there is no fair way to say one controller is actually better than another, only that it got luckier.","Dino Arena closes that gap: a small, self-contained runner where the simulation truth, physics, collisions, obstacle placement, and scoring, is fully separated from anything that varies run to run. It works as a game to play by hand, and without any changes, as a controlled environment for comparing hand-written agent policies head to head."]},{"heading":"Approach and architecture","figure":"architecture","body":["$3","At the historical c722e52 checkpoint, four TypeScript modules under app/game/ did the main work: core.ts (509 lines, the deterministic simulation, world constants, the seeded PRNG, course and match creation, collision, and the 23-value observation vector), agents.ts (435 lines, the eight controllers plus the registry that drives both the UI picker and the benchmark), renderer.ts (240 lines, one DPR-aware Canvas 2D draw function that only reads the match snapshot it is handed), and DinoArena.tsx (332 lines, the only file that touches requestAnimationFrame, keyboard events, and React state, running a fixed-timestep accumulator so the simulation always advances in true 60Hz increments regardless of the browser's actual frame rate). scripts/benchmark-agents.ts and the test files import core.ts and agents.ts directly and drive them in a plain loop with no browser APIs at all, which is the actual proof that the simulation is headless."]},{"heading":"What each controller knows","figure":"controllers","body":["Replaying the same course controls the environment, but the policies still make different decisions with different information. Clockwork Hopper reads the tick and whether it is grounded without consulting obstacles. The reactive policies inspect the next hazard, with different sampling cadences and thresholds. Arc Analyst calculates a jump window from known physics. The two rollout planners compare three immediate actions, then use the same ballistic policy for the remaining simulated steps.","The table records a September 2026 source inspection, separate from the July benchmark below. Horizon Scout uses the three upcoming obstacles encoded in the ordinary observation. Course Cartographer reconstructs the course from the seed and uses the next six hazards. It also has a longer planning horizon. Those differences make this a comparison of complete controllers, not an experiment that isolates the benefit of planning or extra information."]},{"heading":"Implementation notes","figure":"implementation-notes","body":["Game speed depends only on tick count, not on agent behavior: speedAtTick(tick) ramps from 278px/s to a 472px/s cap purely as a function of elapsed ticks, so no controller can finish a shorter run by playing recklessly or a longer one by playing cautiously. The benchmark confirms this directly: Arc Analyst, Horizon Scout, and Course Cartographer all report a median of exactly 6,233 ticks, because they all reach the same finish line at the same simulated moment.","One ballistic solver is reused three times rather than written three times: flightAction(), the closed-form jump-window math, is used directly by Arc Analyst and as the leaf policy scored by a short forward rollout inside Horizon Scout (78-tick lookahead, 3 encoded upcoming obstacles) and Course Cartographer (120-tick lookahead, next six hazards from the reconstructed course). Course Cartographer's advantage is stated honestly as information, not intelligence: the README calls its \"Expert\" tier \"intentionally transparent,\" since it rebuilds the known deterministic course from the match seed and plans over six hazards instead of three, rather than running a smarter algorithm.","No trained model exists anywhere in this repo, and the README says so directly. Seven autonomous controllers use hand-written deterministic policies, and the eighth entry passes through keyboard input. The DinoEnvironment class exposes a reset/step/serialize adapter with an RL-shaped reward signal, which reads as training-ready scaffolding, but nothing in the repo currently trains against it: no trainer, no replay buffer, no learned weights."]},{"heading":"Results","figure":"results","body":["Verified against a local checkout at commit c722e52 (\"Add deterministic opponent roster\"). npm test (12 tests across core and agent behavior) passes 12/12 in about 0.8 seconds. npm run lint is clean. npm run build (vinext, Vite 8.0.13) succeeds across all five build stages.","npm run bench:agents, median across 9 fixed qualification seeds: Clockwork Hopper (open-loop cadence) reaches 1% progress with a 0% clear rate, TTC Pilot (time-to-collision heuristic) 9% progress and 0% clear, Late Reflex (fixed-distance threshold) 13% progress and 0% clear, FSM Sentinel (approach/commit/recover state machine) 29% progress and 0% clear, and Arc Analyst, Horizon Scout, and Course Cartographer all reach 100% progress, 100% clear, at a median of 6,233 ticks.","Line counts verified with wc -l: core.ts 509, agents.ts 435, renderer.ts 240 (1,184 combined), plus 167 lines of tests, for 1,351 lines of simulation and test logic total. DinoArena.tsx (the React UI shell) is a further 332 lines, and the benchmark script is 61 lines, both separate from that figure."]},{"heading":"Tradeoffs and lessons","body":["Courses are finite, 96 obstacles, roughly 6,200 ticks to clear at the observed pace, not endless. That is the right choice for a benchmark tool, but it does mean Dino Arena is not a \"play until you die\" clone in the traditional sense. The benchmark's headline number, a 100% clear rate for the two model-predictive controllers against 9% to 29% median progress for the three reactive heuristics, describes these implementations on nine fixed seeds. Information access differs too, so the comparison does not isolate the effect of planning. It does not generalize beyond that: none of the eight controllers are learned policies, so the result is a statement about hand-written control strategies, not a claim about reinforcement learning or any trained agent. The Next.js and Cloudflare Worker hosting shell is scaffolding from the vinext-starter template, not custom engineering. It exists to make the game playable at a URL.","The transferable idea is about evaluation design: comparing two policies fairly requires an environment that is provably identical between runs, and \"provably\" means removing every non-deterministic input (wall clock, frame rate, Math.random) from the state-transition function itself, rather than trying to control for it statistically after the fact. Building stepMatch as a pure, dependency-free function first, and only afterward wrapping it in a requestAnimationFrame loop for the browser, is what made the headless benchmark and the 12-test suite possible without a second implementation to keep in sync. The difficulty ladder combines observation scope, reaction cadence, hand-set thresholds and planning depth, and the repo names its own scope honestly: no hosted model, no training loop, and no hidden randomness in the seven autonomous opponents, even though the RL-shaped API looks exactly like the seam a real pipeline would plug into."]},{"heading":"Where it is heading","body":["The tracked next step is to train a reinforcement-learning agent through the existing environment adapter and publish its learning curves next to the scripted roster's benchmark table. Shared seeded courses make that comparison repeatable. A fair algorithm comparison also requires matched observation access, action timing, and evaluation budgets. Until that experiment exists, the site reports the scripted roster's measured results."]}],"related":["ai-bomber","ai-frogger","pulse-court"]},{"slug":"pulse-court","startDate":"2026-07","name":"Pulse Court","summary":"A deterministic arena game where policy execution is checked against recorded inputs and replayed state, rather than inferred from a successful load.","description":"I built a fixed-point C++20 arena simulator, native viewer, and policy execution path around reproducible matches. An integration audit found that loading a policy could still leave scripted actions in control. The repaired preview records native network decisions, and a later local ruleset migration matches the reference on synthetic contract probes. Trained-policy certification remains open.","status":"active","category":"games-simulation","context":"Personal","skills":["Deterministic simulation","Replay verification","Native policy inference","C++","Game engine architecture"],"technologies":["C++20","Win32","Direct2D","GDI/GDI+","CMake"],"tags":["reinforcement learning","simulation","games","determinism"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/pulse-court","metrics":["120 Hz fixed-point simulation with a separate 10 Hz policy cadence","6 synthetic-policy preview games, 9,483 network decisions, all 6 replays verified (September 18, 2026)","4 CTest suites passed in both Release and Debug at source commit 661f35d"],"confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":true,"caveats":["The local v4 migration passes synthetic simulator and native-adapter checks, but is not merged or deployed. Strict deployment remains disabled pending accepted certification and artifact-identity checks.","Synthetic development policies exercise loading, inference, and replay plumbing. They are untrained and provide no evidence of competitive strength or certification.","Release and Debug builds, automated suites, native policy execution, and replay verification passed at the September 18 checkpoint. Fresh GUI/input, rendering, and device-loss acceptance remain unverified.","Local Windows prototype only. Networking and team sizes beyond 1v1 remain deferred, and gameplay rendering has not migrated to Direct2D."],"media":[{"type":"image","src":"/images/pulse-court/arena.jpg","width":1672,"height":941,"alt":"Arena background art from the repo: the top-down court the Win32 viewer renders, goal pockets left and right, core spawn at center"},{"type":"image","src":"/images/pulse-court/bastion-idle-sheet.png","width":1024,"height":1024,"alt":"One of the 32 manifest-driven sprite sheets: Bastion's 4x4 idle cycle, cleaned by scripts/clean_sprites.py, rendered with a procedural fallback if a sheet is missing"}],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"Did the network actually play?","figure":"arena","body":["Pulse Court is a local arena game in which two players try to send a moving core into the opposing goal. It also asks a less visible engineering question: when a match is described as policy-controlled, what proves that the policy selected its actions? During the integration audit, the smoke runner could load a policy and then continue playing from a scripted action stream. A successful load and a completed match could both be true while the intended test had never happened.","The repair made execution explicit. Policy preview drives a native controller, records network decisions, and produces matches whose inputs and state hashes can be checked independently. The resulting evidence establishes that the network ran. The policy used for this check is synthetic and untrained. A later local simulator migration addresses the ruleset mismatch described below, while certification remains a separate unfinished step."]},{"heading":"A match needs an authoritative clock","body":["Replay is only useful if the same inputs mean the same game. A collision resolved in a different order, a cooldown tied to drawing frames, or an input interpreted under another ruleset can change the outcome while leaving a plausible-looking match on screen. I made simulation state, timing, resolution order, and replay versions explicit so those differences can be detected.","The game offers three original characters with different abilities, but the authoritative rules live below the viewer. Positions, velocities, cooldowns, and tuning use integer fixed-point arithmetic. The simulation advances at 120 Hz, with defined ordering for players, contacts, goals, and wall reflections. This makes the state transitions inspectable without claiming universal cross-platform equivalence from one Windows test environment."]},{"heading":"Keep presentation outside the rules","body":["The pulse_core library has no windowing or rendering dependency. The native viewer and headless runner consume the same simulation, while each owns the concerns of its interface. A state hash covers authoritative fields and match configuration. The replay verifier runs the recorded inputs through a fresh simulation and reports the first divergent tick, rather than merely checking the final score.","Optional events let strikes, abilities, bounces, and goals trigger animation or tracing without affecting the solver. The event buffer is excluded from state hashing. Rendering can then change without becoming another source of game rules, and headless replay checks can run without loading art or creating a graphics surface."]},{"heading":"A policy file is only the start","body":["The native policy layer runs an FP32 multilayer perceptron. A controller refreshes its decision every 12 simulation ticks, with extra refreshes on initialization and phase changes. That is a 10 Hz decision cadence over the faster simulation clock. Observations, legal actions, inference, and controller state remain outside pulse_core, and the controller supplies actions through the same boundary as other inputs.","The original integration gap sat after loading: the runner could discard the loaded policy and keep using scripted actions. The repaired runner selects scripted or network mode explicitly and counts fresh network decisions. Regression tests separately step a policy controller, reproduce the bot inputs and state hashes, and check that the network action stream differs from the scripted stream. That links the loaded artifact to what actually happened in the match."]},{"heading":"Repair the game behind the policy","figure":"ruleset-comparison","body":["The September preview ran ruleset v2, while the strict policy contract required v4. Its compatibility shim lost touch-kind information. A network could execute successfully and still receive observations that did not match the reference game. Preview made that integration path inspectable, but could not make the rules equivalent.","The September 20 audit made the mismatch concrete. Both encoders return 64 numbers, but an identical core velocity becomes a different network input because the speed caps differ. A strike also changes the core’s motion differently. Body contact can produce matching motion while v2 loses who touched the core. Matching vector length and action mappings therefore cannot establish that a policy is playing the same game.","The subsequent local migration ports the v4 simulation and observation semantics together, removes the lossy shim, and preserves touch ownership and the touch recorded before a goal reset. All 34 synthetic fixtures, covering 78 snapshots, now match the identified v4 reference in observations, actions, masks, touch state and same-ruleset hashes. Native adapter tests also exercise generated, untrained policies. These checks close the measured compatibility gap without certifying a trained model.","Replay history needs its own boundary. A separate verifier retains the exact v2 core and still verifies the unchanged 5,720-tick preview replay. The active v4 loader keeps the hardened admission checks and rejects foreign-ruleset files. Neither rewriting an old replay header nor obtaining a v4 match would establish certification, so strict deployment stays disabled until accepted certification and policy-artifact identity are checked."]},{"heading":"Keep the simulator identity through teardown","figure":"runtime-identity","figureExpandable":false,"body":["The September 21 repair follows simulator identity through the evaluator's lifetime. A DLL pathname alone leaves two questions open: which library did the wrapper actually use, and did that ownership last until native state was destroyed? The wrapper now uses the same loaded library whose receipt, source and configuration were checked, and retains a Windows handle that blocks file replacement. Both evaluator paths expose completed identity only after teardown. The report producer rejects missing or mismatched evidence.","Failure changes what the report may say. If native destruction raises an error, the wrapper cannot assume that the native state is gone. It retains the library and its protection until process exit, without retrying destruction or producing completed identity. The software tests exercise this failure path with a fake native dependency.","The evidence covers 62 software test methods and a separate native probe that called five identity and ABI getters. That probe never created an environment or ran a policy. The new checks concern the library used for a future evaluation. They do not identify the DLL that trained a historical checkpoint, and strict deployment remains disabled."]},{"heading":"The execution check and its control","figure":"verification","body":["Six preview games with the synthetic, untrained policy exercised both bot seats and recorded 9,483 native network decisions. All six replays passed verification. Six explicitly scripted control games recorded zero network decisions. This comparison checks controller selection, not the relative playing strength of two agents.","The included replay is the smallest of the set, a 5,720-tick match that the synthetic policy lost. Its recorded inputs reproduce the saved hashes. Choosing it for portability rather than as a representative performance sample is part of the artifact description. The result closes the execution gap without claiming a trained champion, a human challenge, or competitive ability.","The same September checkpoint passed all four automated suites in both Release and Debug. The suites cover simulation and replay contracts, policy behavior, logging, and challenge paths. Launcher argument checks also passed for spaced and relative Windows paths. These are distinct checks on the path into a run and the evidence coming out of it, with no new inference-latency claim."]},{"heading":"A viewer built for inspection","figure":"sprites","body":["The viewer exposes pause, single-step simulation, hitbox and animation overlays, an action trace, and separate simulation-speed and render-cap controls. Its fixed simulation accumulator ties animation events to simulation ticks. Focus loss clears held input and pauses play. Those controls are intended to make a questionable action inspectable at the point it happened.","Art goes through a manifest-driven pipeline: poses are cleaned into a consistent grid, sheets are baked near their draw sizes, and the runtime supplies procedural fallback when an asset is missing. The images here are repository art. They show the assets used by the viewer, rather than proving that the latest native runtime passed visual acceptance.","Gallery and character setup use Direct2D, while gameplay still uses GDI/GDI+. Keeping the old gameplay renderer during the migration provides a reference for the remaining conversion. Resize behavior, visual parity, alpha edges, and device-loss recovery need their own checks. An isolated rendering spike therefore does not become a gameplay frame-rate claim."]},{"heading":"What replay settles, and what it leaves open","body":["The headless results answer a concrete chain of questions: a controller made network decisions, those decisions produced recorded inputs, and replaying those inputs reproduced the saved state. They do not establish that a human played a challenge or that the viewer handles every input and rendering condition. Headless smoke sessions and viewer challenge sessions still have separate implementations, so their protocols cannot be treated as interchangeable.","The current game is a local 1v1 prototype. Larger teams would change state layout, input frames, collision handling, observations, and tests together. Networking, gamepad support, and audio remain deferred. A new GUI and device-loss acceptance pass was not part of the September evidence, and the requested self-play and earlier-champion replay browser remains unimplemented."]},{"heading":"The next boundary is certification","body":["The local v4 integration now supplies a simulator, observation adapter and replay contract that agree on the exercised fixtures. The next policy step is to bind an accepted trained artifact to its certification and golden-reference evidence, then check it in the actual deployment path. No trained policy was loaded for the migration checks, and the local branch is not merged or deployed. A candidate checkpoint or a successful file parse is still insufficient.","Rendering has its own path: convert gameplay, check visual and device-loss behavior, and then retire the legacy renderer. Keeping these follow-ups separate preserves the value of the current result. Policy execution is now observable through the match evidence, and the project can state exactly which part of deployment remains unproved."]}],"related":["dino-arena","ai-bomber","ai-frogger"]},{"slug":"algorithmic-solvability","startDate":"2026-03","name":"Algorithmic Solvability","summary":"Controlled experiments on whether ML models detect that a task is governed by a compact algorithm.","description":"Research pipeline using a 32-task registry (17 sequence-transformation tasks, 15 tabular-classification tasks, each with a known reference algorithm) and 9 model families under distribution shift to separate algorithmic understanding from pattern matching. Produces 3 compiled research papers and 8 figures from its own results.","status":"research","category":"ml-research","context":"Personal","skills":["Experimental design","ML research","Distribution shift"],"technologies":["Python","PyTorch","scikit-learn"],"tags":["machine learning","data science","research","generalization","distribution shift"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/algorithmic-solvability-experiment","media":[{"type":"image","src":"/images/algorithmic-solvability/results-overview.png","width":1672,"height":941,"alt":"Algorithmic Solvability results overview showing the 32-task registry, nine model families, evidence rubric, and the split between strong classification performance and negative sequence-task results"}],"metrics":["462/462 tests pass across 15 test modules, ~113s","32-task registry: 17 sequence tasks, 15 classification tasks; 9 model families","Classification (14 scored tasks): 3 STRONG, 9 MODERATE, mean best IID accuracy 93.6%","Sequence (16 scored tasks): 1 MODERATE, 11 NEGATIVE, mean best IID accuracy 38.1% despite a tuned LSTM"],"confidentiality":"public","featured":true,"hasPage":true,"caveats":["Solo, three-day build (52 commits, 2026-03-25 to 2026-03-27). Only the S0-S3 and C0-C3 task tiers are implemented; harder compositional tiers were deferred at the design stage and never built.","No deployed service, API, or web UI. A local, CLI-driven pipeline that writes results and figures to disk."],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"Overview","body":["This is a research pipeline, not a demo. It exists to answer one narrow methodological question honestly: when a model gets high accuracy on a task, did it learn the underlying algorithm, or did it learn a pattern that happens to correlate with the algorithm's output on the data it saw? The repo answers that by running its 32-task registry (17 sequence-transformation tasks, 15 tabular-classification tasks, each with a known ground-truth reference algorithm) through 9 model families, scoring each task against a 9-criterion evidence rubric, and assigning one of five verdicts: STRONG, MODERATE, WEAK, NEGATIVE, or INCONCLUSIVE.","The headline result is a split verdict the project reports without softening. Of the 14 classification tasks scored in the executed suite, results are frequently and legibly solvable from examples: 3 STRONG, 9 MODERATE, mean best accuracy 93.6% in distribution. Of the 16 sequence tasks scored, results mostly are not: 0 STRONG, 1 MODERATE, 11 outright NEGATIVE, mean best accuracy 38.1% in distribution, even with an LSTM trained for 200 epochs across 5 seeds. That asymmetry, not a single leaderboard number, is the actual finding. The engineering discipline behind it is real: 20 completed implementation tasks each with a written log, 462 passing tests, a documented deviation log explaining every place the implementation diverged from the design spec, and one traceable instance where the project caught its own baseline gaming a class-imbalance loophole and fixed the data sampler rather than loosening the acceptance criterion."]},{"heading":"The problem","body":["\"My model got 98% accuracy\" conflates two very different things: the model memorized surface statistics that happen to correlate with the right answer on this data distribution, or the model recovered something closer to the actual generating rule and will keep working when the distribution shifts. Standard ML evaluation, a single held-out test set drawn from the same distribution as training, cannot tell these apart. The premise of this repo is to build tasks where the answer is a deterministic Python function, generate labeled data from it, and construct out-of-distribution test conditions (longer inputs, wider value ranges, injected noise, irrelevant features) where a model that learned the real rule keeps working and a model that learned a shortcut breaks."]},{"heading":"Approach and architecture","figure":"architecture","body":["Two parallel task tracks cover different input modalities. The sequence track (S0-S3 tiers) covers variable-length token sequences: reversing, sorting, rotating, computing parity, running cumulative XOR, checking balanced parentheses. The classification track (C0-C3 tiers) covers fixed-width mixed numeric and categorical tabular inputs: a numeric threshold rule, an AND-of-two-features rule, a nested if/else rule, polynomial feature interactions. Both tracks scale by tier, from a random-label or majority-class control up through rules combining three or more primitives.","Every task has a deterministic reference algorithm and a verifier, so every generated label is checked against ground truth at generation time, and noise is injected into inputs only, after labeling, so a noisy example still has a correct label to evaluate against. Nine model families, from a majority-class baseline through logistic regression, decision trees, random forests, k-NN, gradient-boosted trees, an MLP, an LSTM, and a raw-sequence baseline, are trained on each task under four split strategies (IID, length extrapolation, value extrapolation, noise) and scored against a 9-criterion evidence rubric: 5 minimum criteria that gate a MODERATE verdict, plus 4 stronger criteria where clearing at least two upgrades MODERATE to STRONG.","The pipeline is a straight-line sequence of typed stages (task registry, data generator, splits, model harness, evaluation, multi-seed runner, reporting), plus two side branches that consume the baseline results: a diagnostic suite that adds deeper robustness evidence, and a bonus suite that tries to literally extract the learned rule. Diagnostics feeds sample-efficiency, distractor, noise, and feature-importance evidence back into verdict calibration. Bonus only runs against tasks that already scored MODERATE or better, checking whether the model actually recovered the rule rather than just scoring well on it."]},{"heading":"Implementation notes","body":["The clearest evidence of engineering rigor is a caught and fixed measurement artifact. Task C2.1_and_rule (positive iff x1 > 50 AND cat1 == \"A\") is a genuinely easy rule, but under the original uniform sampler it was true only about 1 in 6 times, which let a plain majority-class baseline hit 86% accuracy on label imbalance alone, close enough to the roughly 99.8% best-model accuracy that the pipeline's own baseline-separation criterion failed and the task was mislabeled WEAK even though the rule itself was trivially learnable. The fix was not to loosen the threshold, it was to change the sampling distribution to draw positives and negatives roughly 50/50, verified with a 1,000-seed distribution check and two new regression tests. That repairs a measurement artifact instead of quietly relaxing the definition of success.","A few gaps are named honestly in the repo's own docs rather than discovered by outside review. requirements.txt lists xgboost and lightgbm, and the harness docstring claims to wrap them, but neither is imported anywhere. The gradient-boosted-trees family is sklearn's GradientBoostingClassifier. A Transformer sequence architecture is cataloged across the design docs and listed as an explicitly PENDING action item, but never implemented, a real gap given the sequence track's headline result is that nothing currently in the harness solves most sequence tasks. One of five declared split strategies (DISTRACTOR) has no generator function at the split layer, an explicitly logged deviation, with distractor robustness instead tested at the task level inside the diagnostic suite.","A few smaller choices show the same discipline: noise never touches labels, only inputs, enforced as a design rule rather than a convention, schemas are immutable frozen dataclasses rather than the heavier Pydantic already in the dependency list, a defensible minimal choice, and np.random.default_rng(seed) is used everywhere rather than the legacy RandomState API, for reproducibility across roughly 8,200 lines of pipeline code."]},{"heading":"Results","figure":"results","body":["Verified against a fresh clone at commit 42aa8ac. pytest --collect-only reports 462 tests across 15 test modules, and the full suite passes 462 tests, 0 failed, in 113 seconds. python main.py smoke runs end to end and writes its artifacts to disk. src/ totals 8,223 lines across 15 modules (largest: diagnostic_experiments.py at 1,328 lines), and tests/ totals 5,991 lines.","The 32-task registry breaks down as 17 sequence tasks and 15 classification tasks, confirmed by directly importing the registry rather than trusting the README. Of the 16 sequence tasks scored in the executed baseline suite: 0 STRONG, 1 MODERATE, 2 WEAK, 11 NEGATIVE, 2 INCONCLUSIVE, mean best IID accuracy 38.1%, mean best OOD accuracy 25.9%. Best individual result: S1.4_count_symbol (MODERATE, 99.1% IID / 90.8% OOD, LSTM). Worst: S1.1_reverse and S3.4_rle_encode (both NEGATIVE, under 2% IID). Of the 14 classification tasks scored: 3 STRONG, 9 MODERATE, 1 INCONCLUSIVE, 1 NEGATIVE, 0 WEAK, mean best IID accuracy 93.6%, mean best OOD accuracy 97.0%. Decision trees and random forests win most classification tasks. No classical sklearn model wins a single sequence task, only the LSTM and MLP do.","Diagnostics and bonus experiments add further evidence: D1 sample efficiency positive on 6/8 task-model pairs, D2 distractor robustness on 4/5 tasks, D3 noise robustness on 4/4 classification tasks, and D4 feature-alignment precision at 9/9. B1 decision-tree rule extraction passed functional-equivalence checks on 9/12 classification tasks, and B2 DSL program search recovered an equivalent program on 7/9 sequence tasks. Sequence experiments are the compute cost center (EXP-S1 about 45 minutes, EXP-S2 about 21 minutes), against under a minute for most classification runs."]},{"heading":"Tradeoffs and lessons","body":["$4","The transferable idea is building acceptance criteria before running the experiments and refusing to relax them when a result comes back inconvenient. The C2.1_and_rule episode is the clean example: the honest response to a task failing the baseline-separation bar was to find out why, a sampling artifact, and fix that, not quietly lower the bar. The second lesson is in what the results actually say: tabular rule-classification tasks are, on this evidence, comfortably learnable from examples by ordinary tree-based models, while most tested sequence transformations did not meet the rubric under the upgraded LSTM protocol. That does not establish that the tasks are algorithmically unsolvable or that a different architecture or training procedure would also fail. That is a real, reportable negative result for the sequence track, not a failure of the project, and it is published with the same rigor as the positive one."]}]},{"slug":"runelite-cv","startDate":"2026-06","name":"RuneLite CV Helper","summary":"A 16.6k-line game-automation plugin decomposed into 22 bounded services, with a versioned HTTP contract and recovery ladders.","description":"Computer-vision and automation plugin for RuneLite, the open-source Old School RuneScape client. The V3 architecture decomposed a 16.6k-line monolith into 22 singleton services, each under 2k lines: coordination, a localhost HTTP API with a versioned JSON contract, entity export, input execution, login recovery, item and loot policy, BFS pathing, two skill farmers (mining, woodcutting) plus a mob farmer with combat AI, and a live browser diagnostics frontend. The guardrails are the showcase: client-thread-only bridges and a cycle-free injection graph.","status":"maintained","category":"systems","context":"Personal","skills":["Systems design","Modular decomposition","Observability","Recovery systems","Java"],"technologies":["Java","Guice","RuneLite","HTTP APIs"],"tags":["computer vision","systems","games","observability","plugin architecture","modular decomposition","game automation","recovery systems"],"metrics":["V3: 16.6k-line monolith decomposed into 22 services, each under 2k lines","Cycle-free Guice injection graph","2 skill farmers (mining, woodcutting) + mob farming with combat, loot policy, and recovery logic"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/runelite-cv","confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":false,"related":["mmg"]},{"slug":"neat-playground","startDate":"2019-04","name":"NEAT Playground","summary":"NEAT neuroevolution implemented from scratch in C, evolving neural nets that play Flappy Bird, Snake, 2048, and Pac-Man, with interactive replay visualizers you can run in the browser.","description":"A from-scratch C implementation of NEAT (NeuroEvolution of Augmenting Topologies) that evolves small neural networks to play four arcade games, using episode fitness without action labels or gradient descent. Recorded evolution histories replay in interactive browser visualizers showing the network, its sensors, and its decisions.","status":"active","category":"games-simulation","context":"Personal","skills":["Neuroevolution","C","Simulation design","Visualization"],"technologies":["C99","NEAT","SDL2","HTML/JS visualizers"],"tags":["reinforcement learning","neuroevolution","neat","games","simulation","machine learning"],"metrics":["Repository-reported throughput: ~60M agent-steps/second/core","2048 learning study: 102.6 mean maximum tile across 5 final test batches","2048: a late score increase after a plateau around generations 170 to 200","20 retained learning runs, 4,500 generation records available as CSV"],"tryIt":{"url":"/demos/neat/index.html","label":"Watch the evolved agents play","note":"Interactive replay visualizers, hosted right here. Pick a game and scrub through generations."},"media":[{"type":"image","src":"/images/neat/flappy-dashboard.png","width":1265,"height":712,"alt":"Flappy Bird replay dashboard with live network visualization"},{"type":"image","src":"/images/neat/flappy-replay.png","width":1265,"height":712,"alt":"Evolved agent navigating Flappy Bird pipes"},{"type":"image","src":"/images/neat/snake-replay.png","width":1265,"height":712,"alt":"Evolved Snake agent with sensor rays displayed"},{"type":"image","src":"/images/neat/2048-replay.png","width":1265,"height":712,"alt":"2048 board with network output panel"},{"type":"image","src":"/images/neat/pacman-replay.png","width":1265,"height":720,"alt":"Pac-Man agent balancing pellet collection and ghost evasion"},{"type":"image","src":"/images/neat-playground/neat-live-viewer.gif","width":1254,"height":623,"alt":"Animated capture of the recorded evolution viewer: the Flappy Bird viewer's species timeline, generation slider, and per-species strategy cards"}],"confidentiality":"public","featured":true,"hasPage":true,"related":["ai-bomber","ai-frogger","dino-arena"],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"Overview","body":["NEAT Playground trains neural networks through evolution. A population of small networks plays Flappy Bird, Snake, 2048, or Pac-Man, and selected performers reproduce with mutations to their weights and structure. Episode fitness guides the search without action labels or gradient descent. The method is NEAT (NeuroEvolution of Augmenting Topologies), built from scratch in C99, driving all four games through one shared interface. The repository reports throughput of about 60 million agent-steps per second per core; that figure was not re-benchmarked for this case study.","The repository began as a two-line README in April 2019. The retained implementation and four-game study were committed in July 2026, followed by browser replay work. Its central comparison asks whether changing the training worlds helps: train the same algorithm on one fixed world instead of a fresh random one every generation, and all four games score lower on an unseen world after fixed-world training than after random-world training in the recorded ablation."]},{"heading":"The problem and motivation","body":["I wanted to train agents from their performance in a game, without collecting examples of the correct action at each step. The simulator can score a completed episode, but that score does not explain which earlier decisions helped. This project uses neuroevolution to search directly over the controller and its network structure.","NEAT represents a network's weights and connections as a genome, evaluates its episode fitness, and uses selection and mutation to produce the next population. It requires neither action labels nor gradients through the simulator. Sparse or delayed rewards can still make useful candidates hard to discover: a fitness score must distinguish enough behaviors for selection to make progress. The sensor and fitness choices therefore remain part of the learning problem.","The four games form a difficulty ladder, not four unrelated demos: Flappy is a pure reflex baseline, Snake adds path planning, 2048 adds reading a whole board over many moves, and Pac-Man adds pursuing one goal while evading another. Holding the algorithm fixed and varying only the game turns each result into a question about what NEAT does under different demands."]},{"heading":"How it evolved (2019 to 2026)","body":["The April 2019 commit records the AiBirb name and the intention to use NEAT for Flappy Bird. The first retained implementation arrived in July 2026: a C simulator, shared-memory transport, a viewer, and a trainer. Subsequent commits moved game behavior behind the Env interface and added Snake, 2048, and Pac-Man. That interface let the same evolutionary machinery meet different observation spaces and action choices.","The study then made the training setup itself a subject of comparison: fixed versus changing worlds, fitness versus batch-based champion selection, and feedforward versus recurrent networks. Saved logs keep those questions inspectable after a run ends. The browser replay work provides another view of the recorded agents, while the CSV downloads below expose the measurements behind the learning curves and selection comparison."]},{"heading":"System architecture","figure":"architecture","body":["One NEAT engine drives all four games through a single shared interface, the Env vtable in include/env.h: observe, step, reset, alive, score. The engine is 2,086 lines across 7 files (genome operations, population and speciation, network compilation, HyperNEAT, config parsing, serialization, and the RNG), game-agnostic by design. Three driver binaries, a trainer, a viewer, and a server, all reach every game through that vtable, and each of the four game modules, 1,238 lines total, implements it independently: adding a fifth game means one new file behind the vtable, not touching the engine or the drivers. The whole tree is 4,698 lines across 21 files.","The evolutionary core is canonical NEAT: every new connection gets a global innovation number so differently-shaped networks can still be recombined correctly, and new structure is protected from immediate competition by speciation, grouping networks by a compatibility distance (excess genes, disjoint genes, average weight difference) and breeding mostly within each species using fitness sharing, with stagnant species removed while the top species and the all-time champion stay protected. A master seed drives separate game and evolution RNG streams. The default build avoids architecture-specific and fast-math flags, and the regression script compares the saved champions and logs from two same-seed runs of the same binary. Cross-platform byte equality has not been established. Champion-selection batches also derive their seeds from the master seed and generation number, making the selection inputs reproducible.","The browser visualizers load compressed JSON histories containing species networks and generation-specific evaluation-course seeds. A JavaScript port of the NEAT evaluator and all four environments executes the selected network and displays its activations and sensor readings. Keeping that second implementation consistent with C is a separate engineering task. The downloadable replay check below covers four diagnostic episodes; it does not certify every species and course in the histories."]},{"heading":"The games and evaluation design","body":["Each game hands the network a fixed-size sensor vector and gets back one action, chosen by argmax over the output layer. In the hosted replay histories, Flappy Bird uses 5 sensors and 2 actions, glide or flap. Snake uses 31 inputs: 7 heading-relative features plus 24 ray readings, with 3 relative-turn actions. 2048 combines its 16 board cells with 8 engineered features for 24 inputs and 4 slide actions. Pac-Man combines 16 features with 24 ray readings for 40 inputs and 4 move actions. These counts describe the hosted replay runs; the historical study results below retain their separate measurement provenance.","The default training setup derives a new batch of world seeds for each generation. Flappy's pipe gaps, Snake's start cell and apple positions, 2048's tile spawns, and Pac-Man's maze (a lattice of pillars, each staying a wall about 70% of the time, always generated from a fully-connected base so no maze is unsolvable) are drawn from the run's RNG stream. The memorization ablation below compares fixed-world and random-world training on unseen worlds. Random training worlds reduce the opportunity to memorize one level, but held-out evaluation is still needed to measure generalization.","Champion selection follows the same logic. Instead of crowning whichever genome had the highest fitness ever recorded, rewarding whoever's generation served up an easy world, the trainer periodically re-tests the top genomes on a brand-new random batch and crowns whoever scores best on it. A separate verifier can re-test the saved champion across a specified seed range, reporting mean, minimum, and maximum scores. Its printed mean is integer-truncated; the selection comparison below retains those printed batch means."]},{"heading":"Experiments and results","figure":"results","body":["The memorization ablation is the centerpiece: the one experiment that could have falsified the random-world design. Setup: train the same population two ways, once on a single world reused for the entire run (\"fixed world\") and once on a fresh random world every generation (\"random world,\" the default), then score both on a world neither ever saw. A 2048 population trained on a fixed world has a reported score of 128 on that world and 6 on an unseen one. Trained on random worlds instead, it holds at 64 on training and 42 unseen. Snake shows the same shape (31 fixed-world training, 10 unseen, versus 12 and 25 trained random), as does Pac-Man (40 and 15, versus 66 and 41). Flappy shows the same advantage for random-world training: fixed-world training scores 6 on the training world and 2 unseen, while random-world training scores 54 on both. Snake's random-world unseen score (25) even edges past its own random-world training score (12), a reminder of how noisy one run is at this scale.","The learning curves average five runs at each generation. Their final logged test-batch means average 54 pipes for Flappy, 27.6 apples for Snake, and 32.8 pellets for Pac-Man. For 2048, the score is the largest tile reached in an episode, not the accumulated merge score. The trainer averages that value across its test batch and truncates it to an integer. At generation 299, the five logged values were 42, 38, 339, 40, and 54: a mean of 102.6 with a standard deviation of 118.3 across runs. That spread matters more than the mean alone. The late increase in the average curve does not establish a grokking transition or explain what the high-scoring run learned.","Two further three-seed ablations tested champion selection and recurrence. Selection on fresh test batches has slightly higher reported averages than selection on training fitness in three games: Flappy 54 versus 51, Snake 27 versus 26, and 2048 38 versus 35, with Pac-Man unchanged at 30, all rounded. These summaries do not establish statistical certainty. An early apparent recurrence advantage turned out to be confounded, as the later experiment explains.","A separate four-run, 800-generation 2048 study recorded peak logged test-batch mean maximum tiles of 46, 53, 65, and 47. The 65 is a batch average, not a tile value. That study used feedforward networks, a larger population, different observations, and longer test episodes than the five-run learning study. Its peaks and the learning study's final means are different measurements, so they cannot establish a gain from training longer."]},{"heading":"Decisions and tradeoffs","body":["Writing NEAT from scratch in C gave me control over both the evolutionary operators and the simulation cost. Small environments and batched population evaluation made repeated sweeps practical on commodity hardware. The cost is maintaining the machinery a mature library would already provide: mutation operators, serialization, visualization support, and established behavior to compare against when a run goes wrong.","Varying the training worlds is a deliberate choice: it reduces repeated exposure to one fixed layout. The ablation supports that choice for the measured runs, while separate unseen-world evaluation measures how much of the learned behavior transfers. A related choice was what the network should see. A raw board grid failed outright on the harder games (Snake scored 0 apples every time, Pac-Man about 7), in the evaluated configuration with 148 to 251 raw inputs. Those runs motivated the hand-built feature vectors used in the reported results, without establishing that NEAT cannot learn from raw boards under other configurations.","Keeping training in C and replay in JavaScript makes the saved networks easy to inspect in a browser, but leaves two implementations to maintain. A September consistency check rebuilt the native recorder and replayed four existing diagnostic cases on seed 12345, with no new training or holdout evaluation. Across 2,039 recorded steps, it compared observations, actions, scores, neuron activations and rendered state, then each final score. The networks occur in the public histories, but this diagnostic seed is not one of their recorded courses. The downloadable inputs and checker make that bounded comparison repeatable; final-state and termination checks remain outside the recorded evidence.","The newest work in the same tree raises the engineering bar again: C++20 and CMake instead of hand-rolled Makefiles, sanitizer builds, a ctest suite, and a held-out verifier as a first-class command rather than a line in a training log, aimed at a fifth game, a Frogger-style lane crossing that adds moving-obstacle timing to the planning and board-reading the first four games already demanded."]},{"heading":"Lessons learned","body":["Random-world training had higher unseen-world scores in all four recorded game comparisons. That supports keeping varied training environments in this project. The exported summaries do not establish a universal cause of memorization, matched evaluation horizons, or uncertainty across repeated runs. A replicated comparison with matched training and evaluation budgets would test how robust the observed advantage is.","The second lesson is a methodology warning that cost a real result to learn. An early one-factor-at-a-time sweep showed recurrent connections nearly doubling 2048's score, a headline-looking finding. Re-running the comparison from an already-tuned baseline instead of a default one made the effect mostly disappear: feedforward and recurrent networks landed within a couple of points of each other (45 versus 44). The apparent recurrence advantage depended on the comparison baseline. These runs did not establish an independent benefit after the other settings were tuned, so the earlier headline was too strong.","A third lesson: an easy benchmark tells you almost nothing about an algorithm, since it never exercises the parts that make the algorithm interesting. Flappy ignored nearly every hyperparameter that mattered for the other three games, so judged on Flappy alone, the honest conclusion would have been that none of NEAT's knobs matter, exactly wrong for the rest."]},{"heading":"Current limitations","body":["The repository is private, so this page has no code link. Selected ablation summaries, source identities, a reading guide, and checksums are downloadable beside the results. Those extracts let readers inspect the reported values, but the full source and run artifacts needed to reproduce the study are not public. The games and networks are both small by design, which is what makes several hundred training runs affordable, but it also means the conclusions are about small-network neuroevolution specifically, not neuroevolution at scale. The hyperparameter sweep is one-factor-at-a-time: it identifies which single knobs matter but, as the recurrence result shows, not how they interact, and the full interaction surface was not mapped.","A few modeling choices simplify the games themselves. Pac-Man's three ghosts use straight-line Manhattan targeting at half of Pac-Man's own speed, which keeps the maze winnable, rather than the arcade original's timing-based, personality-driven chase logic. 2048's illegal-move handling, a small penalty plus a cap on consecutive illegal moves before ending the episode, is one reasonable policy among several. The checkpoint serializer is built to round-trip the project's own files, not hardened against malformed input, so it is safe for personal runs and not a trusted import format for files from elsewhere."]},{"heading":"Where it is heading","body":["The repository is private while some early experimental history gets cleaned up before anyone else reads it. Opening the source is the plan once that pass is done, and a code link replaces this page's current no-repo state at that point.","The newer C++20 line of work, still in the same working tree, keeps moving on its own fifth game. Its stated next steps are a raw or combined pixel-observation mode (currently hand-built feature vectors only) and river and log lanes to complete the hazard set (currently road hazards only), both open work rather than finished."]}],"experiments":[{"id":"memorization-ablation","title":"Memorization ablation: fixed vs. random training worlds","date":"2026-07","status":"completed","sections":[{"heading":"Setup","body":["Same population and hyperparameters, two training regimes per game. \"Fixed world\" reuses one world seed for the entire run, the setup a train/test split would normally guard against. \"Random world\" generates a fresh world every generation, the project's default everywhere else in this case study. Both regimes were then scored on a world neither had ever trained on, a genuinely unseen batch built from seeds the trainer never touched while selecting a champion."]},{"heading":"Result","body":["The gap lands exactly where the design predicts. 2048 shows it sharpest: fixed-world training has a reported score of 128 on its training world and 6 on an unseen one, while random-world training holds at 64 on training and 42 unseen, a much smaller drop. Snake and Pac-Man show the same shape. Snake reaches 31 apples on its own fixed training world but 10 on an unseen one, against 12 and 25 when trained random. Pac-Man reaches 40 and 15, against 66 and 41. Flappy shows the same advantage for random-world training: fixed-world training scores 6 on the training world and 2 unseen, while random-world training scores 54 on both. Snake's random-world unseen score (25) even edges past its own random-world training score (12), a reminder of how noisy a single-run comparison is at this scale."]},{"heading":"What it changed","body":["Generation-varying world seeds were already the trainer's default going into this ablation. The recorded comparison supports that default: all four games score higher on the unseen world after random-world training than after fixed-world training. This is evidence for varied training worlds in this ablation, not proof that held-out evaluation is unnecessary."]}]},{"id":"held-out-champion-selection","title":"Champion selection: training fitness vs. a fresh selection batch","date":"2026-07","status":"completed","previousSummary":"The memorization ablation showed what happens when a population trains on a fixed world: all four games score lower on the unseen world than their random-world-trained counterparts in the recorded comparison. That supports training on varied worlds in this ablation. This experiment asks a narrower question about that same random-world scheme: once training worlds are already random, does it still matter how the champion gets picked at the end of each generation?","sections":[{"heading":"Setup","body":["Fitness on any one generation's random worlds is noisy, since some generations simply serve up easier worlds than others. The trainer re-tests its top candidates and current champion at configured intervals on a fresh random batch, seeded from the run's master seed and generation number, and keeps the highest batch mean (\"testbatch\"). This comparison contrasts that scheme with selecting on raw training fitness (\"fitness\"), across three run seeds per game. The retained experiment script specifies 150 generations and then evaluates each saved champion on the same 30 seeds, 3000 through 3029, capped at 6,000 ticks per episode. The downloadable CSV retains the verifier's integer-truncated batch means; individual episode scores are not included."]},{"heading":"Result","body":["Testbatch selection has a higher three-seed mean in three games. Rounded means are Flappy 54 versus 51, Snake 27 versus 26, and 2048 38 versus 35. Individual runs are mixed: Snake seed 2 scores 25 versus 28, and 2048 seed 3 scores 33 versus 38, both favoring fitness selection. Pac-Man has identical paired scores of 33, 29, and 29 under both methods, a mean of 30.3. These modest average differences do not establish a reliable advantage from three seeds."]},{"heading":"What it changed","body":["Fresh-batch selection remains the trainer's default, and this comparison gives a modest reason to retain it. The useful design distinction is between the score that selects a champion and the held-out score used to assess that choice. Reusing the selection batch as final evidence would erase that distinction. More independent runs would be needed to determine whether the small mean differences persist."]}]}]},{"slug":"ai-bomber","startDate":"2026-07","name":"AI Bomber","summary":"A Bomberman self-play project where win-cause audits retracted a strength claim and tactical gates stopped a later training run.","description":"I built a deterministic C17 game simulator and native C++/LibTorch training pipeline, then tested what its winning checkpoints actually did. An early strength claim failed when most wins proved to be arena-crush outcomes. Later work rebuilt training around an opponent ladder and tactical gates, and a saved-champion audit kept the deployed artifact distinct from the latest network.","status":"research","category":"games-simulation","context":"Personal","skills":["Simulation","C","Agent self-play"],"technologies":["C17","raylib"],"tags":["reinforcement learning","simulation","games","self-play"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/ai-bomber","media":[{"type":"image","src":"/images/ai-bomber/arena-inspector.png","width":1400,"height":860,"alt":"The Arena Inspector: an MCTS vs heuristic match set up in the Live Policy Arena, with per-agent stats, a danger legend, and the last reward breakdown"},{"type":"image","src":"/images/ai-bomber/match-history-replay.png","width":1400,"height":860,"alt":"Match History and Replay: frame stepping through a recorded MCTS vs heuristic match, with per-match outcomes and the state hash of the replayed frame"},{"type":"image","src":"/images/ai-bomber/champion65-frame40.png","width":1400,"height":860,"alt":"Native replay of the iteration-65 champion against the heuristic agent, paused at step 41 with a bomb and its blast path visible. The match later ends in an arena-crush win."}],"metrics":["Headless simulator throughput: ~234,000 steps/sec, single core, no visualizer linked","12 CTest suites covering determinism, replay, reward, danger, and hardening","8 design docs; 59 C source and header files, 4,296 lines, ~146 KB across src/","CI matrix: GCC + Clang (-Werror) and MSVC, full suite on every push and PR","AlphaZero v1 iteration-70 checkpoint, untouched holdout: 66.02% vs native heuristic (41W-87D-0L), zero losses vs all opponents"],"confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":true,"caveats":["At the case-study base commit (c50f423, 2026-07-06) there is no trained neural agent, only rule-based agents. The AlphaZero self-play campaign that followed (July 7 to 14, 2026) produced a real trained checkpoint and is covered in its own sections below, including one retracted claim."],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"A win count was not enough","body":["AI Bomber began as a deterministic Bomberman-style environment and grew into an AlphaZero self-play project. Its most consequential result was a retraction. A checkpoint passed an agent-ladder gate, but an outcome audit found that almost all of its wins came from the closing arena crushing the opponent. The score established survival under those rules, while the published claim implied broader combat ability.","That distinction changed the evaluation. Later runs used outcome attribution, tactical probes, and explicit continue-or-stop criteria. A staged rebuild made progress through an opponent ladder, then stopped when self-play failed its consistency requirement. The latest audit asks a further question: do those tactical measurements describe the saved champion that will actually be used, or only the latest network produced by training?"]},{"heading":"Make the game reproducible before learning from it","body":["Bomb-based play depends on delayed consequences. A tile that is safe now may be lethal when the agent arrives, and a policy needs to reason about movement, blast propagation, escape routes, and the opponent together. If simulation state leaks between agents or danger checks use the wrong time, training can optimize against behavior the evaluator did not intend.","I built the original environment around bounded state, seeded randomness, explicit rules, and inspectable rewards. The base implementation supported rule-based agents before a neural trainer existed. That ordering made it possible to test game behavior on its own and later attach search and learning through the same environment boundary."]},{"heading":"One simulation under the tools","figure":"architecture","body":["The C17 core owns configuration, seeded state, replay storage, and episode metrics. Environment modules implement map generation, movement, bombs and blasts, danger predictions, observations, rewards, and termination. Agents have a shared function-pointer interface with their own storage. Headless runners, benchmarks, evaluators, and the raylib viewer consume the same observation-action-step loop.","Fixed-size state avoids heap pointers in the saved representation and makes copying and serialization straightforward. It also imposes real limits, including a 31x31 maximum grid and fixed bounds on agents and bombs. The visualizer is optional at build time, so headless rollouts do not need graphics dependencies. Native C++/LibTorch training was added above this core rather than replacing the game rules."]},{"heading":"Small state bugs can change an experiment","figure":"results","body":["The early hardening pass repaired a concrete isolation bug: heuristic and greedy agents used file-static implementation state. Two instances could share random state and interfere with each other. Moving that storage into each agent made independent instances possible and turned the isolation requirement into a tested contract.","Danger checking similarly needed the time of arrival, rather than only the current tile state. A named arrival-time check uses the predicted time to a blast to judge a move. Reward accounting keeps survival, crate destruction, damage, elimination, escape, and penalties separately visible before summing them. That decomposition is useful when an agent’s preferred behavior and the intended task diverge.","The base simulator has 12 CTest suites covering rules, determinism, replay, rewards, agents, and danger, with GCC, Clang, and MSVC in the configured CI matrix. Its reported headless throughput of about 234,000 steps per second comes from a historical commit-message benchmark, not a new measurement in this case study. The original results figure below describes that foundation, not the later learner’s strength."]},{"heading":"A learned checkpoint, with a modest trajectory","figure":"alphazero-trajectory","body":["The first native AlphaZero run completed 100 iterations using a 128-channel, 10-block residual network with 3,250,839 parameters. The retained checkpoint came from iteration 70. Validation improved early, regressed, and recovered to a modestly higher plateau. The run did not show the sharp late transition its grokking hypothesis called for.","Early evaluation was also contaminated by the bootstrap heuristic used in search. Scores from iterations 5 through 20 were heuristic-aided and cannot be read as clean neural-policy results. The later holdout evaluation used the retained checkpoint on seeds excluded from self-play and selection. Keeping that distinction matters because a learning curve can mix different sources of decision quality even when its label stays the same."]},{"heading":"Read the draws and the opponent beside the score","figure":"alphazero-holdout","body":["On the original untouched holdout, the iteration-70 checkpoint recorded 128 wins against random, 41 wins and 87 draws against the native heuristic, and 2 wins and 14 draws against native MCTS, with no losses in those sets. The corresponding heuristic and MCTS scores were 66.02% and 56.25%, counting a draw as half a win. The strong draw component is part of the result, not something a percentage should hide.","The opponent budget also bounds the conclusion. A later diagnostic against a strengthened MCTS opponent with 512 simulations and depth 16 produced 16 draws and no wins. That used a different diagnostic set, so it is not a paired estimate of the budget’s effect. It does establish that the earlier holdout score was insufficient evidence of superiority to the stronger search baseline. A comparison with an earlier NumPy model likewise used different seeds and search budgets and cannot support a clean improvement claim."]},{"heading":"The retraction changed what counted as progress","figure":"match-replay","body":["Continuation runs eventually produced a v5 checkpoint described as superhuman on the project’s agent ladder. The next audit found that 95 to 97% of its wins were arena-crush deaths. With sudden death disabled, a control collapsed to near-all draws. The reward assigned the same full value to a crush win and a bomb-kill, while a win-draw-loss gate could not distinguish the two. The claim was retracted and the original document retains that correction.","A bounded replay-reweighting intervention then produced 1 bomb-kill win in 64 games against the control’s 0 in 64, below its frozen success bar, and was stopped. The v7 restart used search and target repairs, teacher imitation, a gated opponent ladder, and guarded self-play. The ladder reached MCTS at 256 simulations, but the following 40-iteration self-play tranche failed tactical consistency: only 3 of 8 probes met the required gate count, against 6 of 8 required.","The smoothed top-rung win-rate criterion held at all 8 probes, which did not mean every raw probe was a winning result. No champion was promoted during that tranche. The July stop was honored, leaving the iteration-65 ladder champion in place. The experiments below retain the intervention and staged-training details without presenting the repeatedly observed ladder as an unseen-opponent strength test."]},{"heading":"Measure the champion that will actually be used","figure":"champion-audit","body":["The training canary had been measuring the latest network, while the deployable artifact remained the saved champion. The September audit ran both through the same six standalone tactical scenarios, serially, with one native binary and 96-simulation search. It bound every result to checkpoint identity. The standalone seeds differ from the historical canary, so this is a new diagnostic comparison rather than a rerun of July.","The iteration-65 champion passed four scenarios and the iteration-110 checkpoint passed three. Both passed bomb escape, corridor clearing, and trapping, and both failed chase and flame timing. Stall-breaking separated them: the champion passed while the latest exhausted the step budget. Their training histories differ, so this is not a causal estimate of self-play’s effect or a full-game win rate.","The accompanying replay is equally specific. On the first predetermined diagnostic seed, the champion moved and placed bombs, then won at step 121 when the arena crushed the heuristic opponent. There was no bomb-kill. Native saved-state playback and the screenshot were checked, but a separate deterministic resimulation was not performed. The artifact makes the behavior inspectable without turning one illustrative win into combat mastery."]},{"heading":"The stopped run remains the result","body":["The project now has a reproducible simulation, a native learning pipeline, retained negative interventions, and checkpoint-specific tactical evidence. Those are useful systems results alongside an unfinished strength claim. The saved champion is not interchangeable with the last training output, a diagnostic gate is not a held-out win rate, and winning by the environment’s closing wall does not demonstrate every skill the game requires.","No training or reserved holdout was consumed for the September audit, and the July stop remains in effect. A further strength claim would need its own declared evaluation, opponent identities, win-cause accounting, and the required controls. Checkpoint-backed human play and full-simulator PPO are separate unfinished work. The immediate achievement is that the project can now attach a narrower, checkable meaning to each reported result."]}],"experiments":[{"id":"kl-105-replay-reweighting","title":"Capped cause-balanced replay reweighting","date":"2026-07","status":"completed","sections":[{"heading":"Setup","body":["A separate policy-action diagnostic traced the trained policy's raw argmax and found it chose the WAIT action on 63 to 65 percent of steps across four checkpoints, a local optimum rather than an exploration bug. The replay-reweighting experiment tested one fix for it: up-weighting replay samples toward bomb-kill-decisive trajectories, capped at 0.25, against a control arm capped at 0. Both arms forked from the same v6 checkpoint (control03-130) with an identical learning-rate schedule (33,280 updates), and the intervention's pass or fail criteria were frozen and committed before either arm ran, which continued to iteration 154."]},{"heading":"Result","body":["The treatment arm produced a bomb-kill rate of 1 out of 64 games against the control arm's 0 out of 64, well short of the frozen bar of at least 6 needed to justify the intervention. A reweighting tracer showed why: the sampler was up-weighting whole winning trajectories, including the passive lead-up before the kill, not the kill-decisive steps themselves, which defeats the local credit assignment the intervention depended on. Reported against the criteria frozen before the run rather than reinterpreted afterward, the verdict was flat to negative, and the intervention was killed."]},{"heading":"What it changed","body":["Replay reweighting was not iterated on or retried with new hyperparameters. Combined with the opponent-model ablation's mixed verdict on the same underlying WAIT-bias equilibrium (the mechanism is real, but bomb-prior starvation gates it off), the result was read as evidence that adjusting the data or the reward after training was not enough on its own. The project's response was a full literature-grounded restart, v7, which addressed the same WAIT-collapse mechanism directly inside training instead of patching the replay buffer after the fact, covered in the next experiment."]}]},{"id":"v7-staged-self-play-redesign","title":"v7: a staged rebuild from IL bootstrap to guarded self-play","date":"2026-07","status":"completed","previousSummary":"Replay reweighting and the opponent-model ablation each targeted the same WAIT-collapse equilibrium and each came back flat or only partially confirmed, so patching the existing recipe was abandoned in favor of a full restart. v7 was a literature-grounded redesign, informed directly by a Pommerman and AlphaZero-family survey, executed as four pre-registered stages: Stage 0 search and target repairs, Stage 1 a teacher imitation-learning bootstrap, Stage 2 a gated algorithmic opponent ladder, and Stage 3 guarded self-play, each stage gated before the next could start.","sections":[{"heading":"Setup","body":["Stage 1 trained the policy against a curriculum of teacher opponents and had to clear a pre-registered exit gate (at least 4 of 6 criteria, including a bomb-usage rate that reached 10.5 percent) before Stage 2 could start. Stage 2 then promoted the resulting policy up a fixed ladder of opponents in order, random, evasive, greedy-crate, heuristic, alpha-beta, MCTS at 64 simulations, and finally MCTS at 256 simulations, the same class of opponent used as the Stage 1 teacher, with a pre-registered continue-or-stop rule at every rung."]},{"heading":"Result","body":["$5"]},{"heading":"What it changed","body":["The stop was honored rather than re-argued: zero champions were promoted across the whole Stage 3 tranche, and the iteration-65 ladder champion held for all 40 iterations. The write-up calls the result a plateau with tactical oscillation, not a pathology, since the guards against drift worked even though self-play itself added no measurable strength over the ladder-trained champion. Three follow-up designs were proposed in the same write-up, a claim-preparation pass on the frozen champion, a lower-mirror-fraction Stage-3b variant, and gates-on-champion instrumentation, and none had launched as of the July 14 stop. The September audit in this case study subsequently measured the saved champion; no new training recipe was launched."]}]}],"related":["ai-frogger","dino-arena","pulse-court"]},{"slug":"ai-frogger","startDate":"2026-07","name":"AI Frogger","summary":"A genetic policy learned to survive Frogger by moving sideways. A shared-seed evaluation exposed the difference between reward and crossing.","description":"I built a deterministic C17 Frogger environment, baseline agents, and a genetic trainer for a linear policy. The saved policy outscored two unsuccessful baselines on reward but completed no held-out crossings. Action counts, terminal reasons, and replay artifacts make the failure specific enough to guide a controlled follow-up.","status":"research","category":"games-simulation","context":"Personal","skills":["Simulation","C","Neuroevolution","Evaluation methodology"],"technologies":["C17","CMake","raylib"],"tags":["neuroevolution","simulation","games","evaluation","genetic algorithms"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/ai-frogger","metrics":["200 shared held-out maps per agent, 500-step limit (September 18, 2026; 8c368f9)","Danger-aware baselines: 159/200 goals each; evolved policy: 0/200 (same comparison)","12/12 local tests passed in Release and Debug with assertions active (8c368f9)"],"contributions":["Built the seeded simulator, observations, rewards, terminal diagnostics, and shared agent interface.","Implemented baseline policies, linear-policy inference, genetic training, and versioned weight persistence.","Added metrics exports, replay support, and an optional raylib visualizer.","Preserved a disjoint-seed comparison with source, configuration, and checkpoint identities, including the failed learned policy."],"confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":true,"caveats":["One small training run and one fixed evaluation set, with no general superiority claim.","The September 18 training candidates faced different maps. A later software repair gives them common comparison batches, without changing the reported results.","Scripted and heuristic labels currently follow equivalent action-selection logic, so their equal scores are not independent algorithmic wins.","Historical timeout totals use the terminal-reason export. The separate text counter was repaired on September 20 without changing those results."],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"A policy that survived without crossing","body":["The learned Frogger policy stayed alive for an entire episode by moving left and right. It never moved toward the goal. That behavior earned a better average reward than random movement or a greedy policy that walked straight into traffic, so reward alone could have made the run look like progress. Completed crossings told a different story.","I built this project to put policies through the same seeded road and river hazards, then inspect what their scores mean. The first bounded genetic-training run produced a usable experiment and an unsuccessful crossing policy. The useful result is the explanation the saved evidence makes possible: which actions it took, how episodes ended, and which part of the reward deserves testing next."]},{"heading":"Crossing is a timing problem","body":["The goal is simple: cross traffic, ride moving logs across the river, and reach the far side. A legal move can still put the frog in danger after the hazards advance. A policy therefore needs information about what will happen next, rather than just the direction of the goal. The observation supplies local tiles, valid actions, and directional danger predictions for the next tick.","That distinction gives the baselines a purpose. Greedy moves upward whenever it can. The danger-aware policies check the next-tick hazard before advancing or sidestepping. The labels scripted and heuristic currently use equivalent action-selection logic, despite different decision text, so their matching results provide one reference behavior under two names."]},{"heading":"One environment, several ways to inspect it","body":["FroggerEnv owns the configuration, seeded state, and diagnostics. A step applies the selected movement, advances traffic and log riding, resolves terminal conditions, and records a reward breakdown. Headless evaluation, genetic training, benchmarking, and the optional raylib viewer all use that core. A policy change can therefore be compared without also changing the game underneath it.","The agent interface separates observation from action selection, and saved weights can be loaded into the evaluator after training ends. Metrics exports retain episode rewards, lengths, terminal counts, and action distributions. The viewer reads the same state and decision information, but graphics are optional. Experiments and tests can run without a window, while replay and rendering still have their own verification requirements."]},{"heading":"What the genetic algorithm is selecting","body":["The learned policy is a linear scoring function. It flattens the observation, scores each action with a weight array, and chooses the highest-scoring valid action. There are no hidden layers or recurrent memory. The trainer evaluates candidate arrays over episodes, ranks their mean rewards, retains elites, and fills the population with mutated descendants. The selected weights are saved for later evaluation.","This makes fitness the decisive interface between game design and learning. The trainer has no separate understanding of crossing, progress, or an unhelpful sidestep unless those distinctions affect its reward. The September 18 run also had a comparison weakness: training maps depended on population index. Candidates played different maps, so their fitness combined policy behavior with the difficulty of the maps assigned to them. That historical run cannot isolate genetic selection quality from this difference."]},{"heading":"Make candidates take the same test","figure":"seed-comparison","body":["The September 20 repair assigns every candidate the same episode seeds within a generation, then advances the batch for the next generation. There is a second comparison to fix: the retained champion’s old score came from old maps. The trainer now re-evaluates that incumbent on the current batch before deciding whether to replace it. An easier earlier batch can no longer win that decision through a stale score.","The checks use fixed policies and small synthetic fixtures. They verify that results follow a policy when its population position changes and that the incumbent uses the same batch as its challengers. Deliberately restoring candidate-specific seeds, skipping re-evaluation, or using a neighboring generation’s batch makes the regression fail. No new training campaign or held-out policy evaluation was run. This repairs the comparison mechanism, while the failed policy and the reward hypothesis below remain unchanged."]},{"heading":"First, make the measurement trustworthy","body":["Before relying on an optimized test run, I repaired the assertion contract. Release builds define NDEBUG, and some tests had put persistence operations inside C assertions. Those builds could skip both the checks and the operations the tests appeared to exercise. The test targets now keep assertions active and have a compile-time guard against disabling them. The recorded local Release and Debug runs each passed all 12 tests.","The console summary had a second trap: one timed-out episode printed as two timeouts. The terminal-reason JSON counted that episode correctly, and the historical comparison below uses those counts. A September 20 repair gives episode completion sole ownership of timeout accounting. Tiny runner and CLI checks now reconcile timeout, goal and death outcomes in both Release and Debug, including an external step limit. Their JSON and CSV outputs are unchanged for the same environment-horizon fixtures, and the saved policy's 0/200 result is unchanged. This fixes reporting, not the policy."]},{"heading":"A small run with a separate test set","body":["The declared training plan used 12 candidates for 10 generations, 8 episodes per candidate, 4 elites, and a mutation probability of 0.05. Episodes used the default crossing layout and a 500-step limit. This was a bounded run, with no tuning permitted against its later held-out result.","After training, the saved policy and all four baseline labels played the same 200 seeds, disjoint from the declared training range. The automatic evaluation printed by the trainer overlaps training seeds and is excluded here. The downloadable plan, configuration, weights, raw summaries, and per-episode exports identify the exact comparison. Holding maps and episode limits fixed at evaluation makes the behavioral differences readable, even though candidate maps differed during that historical training run."]},{"heading":"What the reward concealed","figure":"results","body":["The danger-aware labels each completed 159 of 200 crossings. Random and greedy completed none, and neither did the learned policy. Every learned-policy episode reached the 500-step limit. Across its 100,000 actions, the policy chose only left and right, with no upward moves, downward moves, or waits.","Its average reward was -0.1000, compared with -0.8318 for random, -0.6821 for greedy, and 5.3792 for the danger-aware behavior. It had learned a better-scoring way to fail than the first two baselines. The goal counts and action distribution prevent that narrow improvement from becoming a claim that it learned Frogger. This result concerns one saved policy on one fixed evaluation set, and does not establish a limit of linear policies or genetic algorithms."]},{"heading":"The next hypothesis comes from the actions","body":["The reward code penalizes WAIT for stalling, but valid horizontal movement does not receive that penalty merely for making no progress. A timeout has a separate terminal penalty. This is consistent with the observed policy: move sideways, avoid an early death, and accept the timeout. The code provides a plausible incentive for the behavior, and the action counts show that the behavior occurred.","That is still a hypothesis about why training selected this policy. No reward ablation isolated the effect, and candidate-specific maps remain an alternative explanation for the historical result. With the comparison repair checked in software, the next experiment can test a reward intervention under a declared protocol. Increasing the training budget alone would not isolate the reward’s effect."]},{"heading":"What is inspectable now","figure":"replay","figureExpandable":false,"body":["The local environment, trainer, saved-policy loading, and evaluation exports work, and the evidence package preserves the failed policy alongside its baselines. A separate heuristic replay reaches the goal in 16 actions. The browser viewer below displays 17 native states reconstructed from that existing recording, starting before the first action. Repeated reconstruction matches the retained terminal outcome, and every displayed frame comes from the unchanged simulation core. This illustrates successful baseline behavior, not a learned-policy success.","The original raylib viewer builds, but its rendered playback and controls remain unaccepted. This browser view is a separate rendering of exported state, with no policy or physics running in JavaScript. Configuration loading still supports a limited layout rather than a general validated JSON contract. The research question remains whether a controlled reward change produces crossing rather than another higher-scoring failure, under a new evaluation plan."]}],"related":["ai-bomber","dino-arena","pulse-court"]},{"slug":"drug-transporter-ml","startDate":"2018-05","endDate":"2020-05","name":"Drug Transporter ML","summary":"The code behind a cited biomedical publication (Journal of Biological Chemistry, 2020).","description":"An archived Python research implementation for OAT1/OAT3 substrate classification, combining feature-subset search and NEAT. A reproduction audit separates the published study, historical scratch runs, and what the consolidated code actually does.","status":"archived","category":"healthcare-ml","context":"UC San Diego","dateRange":"2018 – 2020","location":"San Diego, CA","skills":["Cheminformatics","Feature engineering","Genetic algorithms"],"technologies":["Python","scikit-learn","NEAT"],"tags":["machine learning","data science","healthcare","research","cheminformatics","neat","publication code"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/drug-transporter-ml","notice":{"label":"Published research","detail":"Read the 2020 Journal of Biological Chemistry paper. The software-maintenance audit below is separate.","href":"https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.RA119.010729"},"media":[{"type":"image","src":"/images/drug-transporter-ml/pipeline-overview.png","width":1672,"height":941,"alt":"Drug Transporter ML pipeline from molecular records through descriptor generation, feature engineering, genetic-algorithm search, and model evaluation"}],"metrics":["3 bundled metabolite datasets, 32 molecular descriptor columns","2020 Journal of Biological Chemistry publication","10 passing software checks on repair a88149c, with synthetic GA execution"],"confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":true,"caveats":["The default-branch snapshot at 4cd3f66 has correctness and startup defects. Repair a88149c passes ten bounded checks and is published for review, but is not merged. Use the linked repair commit to reproduce the new checks.","The published paper, archived code, and later maintenance checks are separate evidence. This audit does not reproduce the paper's experiments or establish a new accuracy result."],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"Overview","body":["I built Python machine-learning tools for a question posed by transporter researchers: which molecular properties help distinguish compounds handled by OAT1 and OAT3? The work contributed to the 2020 Journal of Biological Chemistry paper, \"Unique metabolite preferences of the drug transporters OAT1 and OAT3 analyzed by machine learning.\" My contribution was the software and modeling implementation, developed alongside researchers who supplied the biological context.","The repository now serves a second purpose: it shows what can go wrong when a research implementation becomes an archive. A September 2026 audit found that successful classifier calls had been mistaken for verification of the complete feature-search program. The program could label a result with two feature names while evaluating every column. That changed this case study: the useful story includes the research design, the defect, and the evidence needed to repair it."]},{"heading":"The research question","body":["OAT1 and OAT3 are kidney transporters with overlapping roles, yet the paper investigates molecular differences among their substrates. Its reported finding links OAT3 preference with more structurally complex compounds, including more rings and chiral centers. The paper is the source for that scientific result. The maintenance checks described here concern software behavior and do not repeat the study.","For the implementation, each molecule becomes a row of numeric descriptors rather than an image or a sequence. A model predicts a transporter class from those descriptors. The engineering question is whether searching feature subsets or evolving transformations can produce a useful, inspectable classifier. A high score alone would not explain which inputs it used, whether selection overfit the evaluation data, or whether another researcher could run the same program."]},{"heading":"Data and architecture","figure":"architecture","body":["Three datasets, each a CSV of molecules with 32 shared descriptor columns and a transporter-class label: OAT1OAT3Small.csv (51 metabolites, 3-class: 17 Both, 12 OAT1-only, 22 OAT3-only), OAT1OAT3Big.csv (73 metabolites, same 3-class scheme: 17 Both, 21 OAT1, 35 OAT3), and OAT1OAT3OATP.csv (137 metabolites combining kidney and liver transporters, 6-class: 73 kidney rows plus 64 liver rows split 29 Both OATP, 20 OATP1B1, 15 OATP1B3).","The shared loader produces a matrix, labels, and column names. Three modules consume that interface: a feature-subset search using Random Forest and Decision Tree classifiers, a NEAT classifier, and a NEAT feature transformer feeding a Random Forest. Utilities supply the classification-accuracy function, population setup, checkpointing, and interactive prompts. The intended architecture is compact enough to inspect without a service, database, or deployed API.","The legacy directory retains earlier implementations, including a five-classifier search, dataset-specific variants, parallel search, and an ID3 decision tree. Keeping those versions preserves the development history. It does not establish which exact source, environment, and outputs produced every published number. A consolidated implementation should not silently stand in for a pinned historical experiment."]},{"heading":"Three search methods, three evaluation questions","body":["The brute-force method is intended to enumerate every size-k subset, fit two classifiers on that subset, and save their cross-validation scores next to its column names. Exhaustive enumeration removes one search heuristic, but it does not remove statistical uncertainty. Choosing the best subset on the same folds used to score it can overfit the selection criterion. An independent performance estimate needs an outer evaluation procedure or untouched data.","The module called feature-selection GA evolves a neural network that consumes the raw descriptors and predicts a class. Its fitness is training-set accuracy, so it is searching a classifier rather than reporting held-out performance. The feature-engineering GA instead evolves six transformed features for a downstream Random Forest. Its fitness uses leave-one-out or ten-fold cross-validation, depending on the dataset. Evolution still repeatedly selects against that score. Neither a rising fitness curve nor a winning genome alone establishes generalization.","The utility named auc computes the fraction of correct class predictions. It is classification accuracy, not area under a receiver-operating-characteristic curve. Preserving that distinction matters more than the function's historical name: otherwise readers can mistake a training objective for a different statistical measurement."]},{"heading":"What the reproduction audit found","figure":"results","body":["The July audit exercised data loading and classifier helpers and reported scratch-run scores. It did not establish that the complete subset-search loop was correct. Reviewing the consolidated source at commit 4cd3f66 in September exposed the missing connection: feature_indices determined the CSV labels, but both eval_classifier calls received the full data matrix. A plausible accuracy and a plausible pair of feature names could therefore appear together without describing the same experiment.","A second defect affected completeness. Results were buffered in batches of ten, but the program never wrote the final partial batch. With 32 single-feature combinations it would omit two rows. With 496 two-feature combinations it would omit six. Checking that a CSV existed, or inspecting only its first rows, would miss that failure.","Startup also depended on the operator's working directory. The documented package command conflicted with absolute imports, datasets and configs used relative paths, and output directories were assumed to exist. The four NEAT configs omitted a key required by the previously tested neat-python 2.0.0 environment. These are separate failure modes: a config-only patch cannot verify the search or make the advertised workflow reproducible."]},{"heading":"The repair and its verification","body":["Repair a88149c sends the selected columns to the classifiers, flushes the CSV remainder, makes package imports and resource paths consistent, creates output directories, and updates the NEAT configuration contract. Its first three regression tests use a small matrix with distinctive column values and inspect the actual subset-search loop. They fail against the original implementation and pass after the repair: the recorded inputs match the names, and both a three-row partial batch and a twelve-row batch-plus-remainder are fully saved.","The full suite contains ten passing checks. It also starts the documented command, loads all three datasets, parses all four configs, and saves and restores a checkpoint in an initially absent output directory. Both real GA entrypoints complete one generation using two genomes and six artificial rows. That fixture uses seed 1729, two-tree Random Forests, and intercepted plot calls. It tests execution through the fitness functions without fitting models to the biomedical datasets or claiming research performance.","The checks pass on Windows with Python 3.12.14 and a recorded dependency lock, including a clean source snapshot using the same isolated environment. Those checks intercepted graphics. A later local repair, 6f1dfac, fixes optional network pruning and passes native SVG rendering checks on artificial graphs. Interactive desktop plotting remains unverified. The earlier repair is available on a review branch, not the default branch; the visualization repair has not been pushed. A full paper reproduction would additionally need the original experiment protocol, seeds, selection procedure, environment, and retained outputs. It remains a separate undertaking."]},{"heading":"What changed in the presentation","body":["This page previously called the brute-force path correct end to end. That statement is withdrawn. Historical helper-level accuracy ranges cannot prove that the orchestrator supplied the right columns or saved every result. The same boundary applies to scratch-run charts: without a retained runner and raw measurements, they are insufficient evidence for a new quantitative comparison.","The architecture and differing evaluation objectives remain useful to explain. The published paper remains the source for its own findings. The maintenance audit makes the archive more inspectable by identifying the failing contracts and the checks needed to repair them, without relabeling a software fix as a scientific replication."]},{"heading":"Lessons and limits","body":["The durable lesson is to verify the relationship between inputs, labels, and saved outputs, not just whether a model returns a number. In a search pipeline, the feature names are part of the experiment identity. If they do not match the matrix passed to the estimator, a clean-looking table can describe experiments that never happened. Completeness is another contract: the number of retained rows should agree with the declared search space.","This remains an archived research project rather than a deployed predictor. No new full feature sweep, evolutionary study, or independent biomedical validation was performed for this portfolio audit. Small-sample uncertainty and repeated selection against cross-validation remain relevant even after implementation defects are fixed. Repairing the code makes the next experiment possible to inspect. It does not predetermine its result."]}]},{"slug":"lifeline","startDate":"2025-06","endDate":"2025-09","name":"Lifeline","summary":"A personal-assistant prototype that extracts memories from conversations and selects context for later prompts using similarity, importance, and recency.","description":"I built a React and Django assistant with persistent memory, prompt inspection, and a separate LangGraph path for Gmail tools. Ordinary chat selects stored context before calling the language model, then starts memory extraction from the completed conversation pair. Historically deployed on EC2 with nginx, systemd, and SSL through GitHub Actions. Current hosted availability and runtime quality have not been independently verified.","status":"active","category":"agents","context":"Personal","skills":["Agent systems","Tool use","RAG / semantic memory","Full-stack development","Observability"],"technologies":["Python","Django","React","LangGraph","OpenAI API","AWS EC2"],"tags":["agents","conversational ai","tool calling","generative ai","automation","rag","semantic memory","voice"],"metrics":["Ordinary chat: up to 5 scored memories plus 3 from the conversation","Similarity threshold 0.3, followed by importance and recency weighting","Inspectable prompt records; no measured retrieval-quality result"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/lifeline","media":[{"type":"image","src":"/images/lifeline/memory-flow.svg","width":1200,"height":750,"alt":"Lifeline ordinary-chat diagram: retrieve and format stored context, respond, then attempt background extraction for a later conversation. Source-derived, not a captured session."}],"confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":true,"related":["dusk"],"caveats":["This page includes source traces and an isolated Django/SQLite memory-lifecycle probe with fictional data and fixed providers. Live chat, production scheduling, authentication and answer quality remain unverified.","The inspected September 2026 source snapshot includes local changes to the chat view. File hashes identify those bytes separately from the repository commit."],"caseStudy":[{"heading":"Remembering is a selection problem","body":["A conversation can contain information that matters much later. Keeping the transcript is straightforward. Deciding which part should enter a new prompt is harder: a recent remark may be irrelevant, a durable preference may be old, and a similar sentence may concern the wrong situation. Lifeline makes that selection an explicit part of an ordinary chat request.","I built the assistant around stored memories rather than expecting the model to carry context between requests. The implementation separates extracting a candidate memory, storing it with its source, retrieving candidates for a new message, and formatting the selected context. That separation makes the mechanism inspectable. It does not establish that the model extracted the right facts or that using them improves an answer."]},{"heading":"Two passes through a conversation","figure":"memory-flow","figureExpandable":false,"body":["The React interface sends a message to Django. Before an ordinary model call, the view retrieves memories for the requesting user, combines them with memories associated with the current conversation, and builds an enhanced prompt. Recent messages provide immediate conversational context alongside that stored memory. The ordinary text path sends this assembled prompt to the model.","After a response has been saved, the view starts a background thread to extract memory from the user message and assistant response together. The extractor asks an LLM whether the pair contains something worth retaining. If it returns a memory, the backend embeds its content and creates a Memory record linked to the user, source conversation, and source message. This is a later write, not something the current response waits on.","The timing matters. An answer can already exist while extraction is unfinished or fails. The thread is not a durable job queue, and the extraction function logs an exception and returns no memory. To inspect that separation, I exercised the original Django handler against a fresh SQLite database and held its scheduled callback until after the API response was rendered. Releasing the callback then saved a memory that a new conversation retrieved. The ordering is controlled by the probe, not measured production timing."]},{"heading":"Store the interpretation with its source","body":["Memory is a Django model with content, a type, tags, an importance score, an embedding, timestamps, and links back to the conversation. Types include preferences, goals, and facts. The conversation-pair extractor also records which messages it examined and whether its output describes an actionable item or deadline. These fields make the stored interpretation easier to inspect than an unexplained vector alone.","There is an important distinction between a remembered statement and a verified fact. The extractor reads the assistant response as well as the user message. An assistant suggestion can therefore contribute to the material being summarized. The extraction prompt and returned confidence are not an independent check that the resulting memory is accurate or appropriate to retain.","Embeddings are stored with each memory in a JSON field. Retrieval embeds the new query and compares it with those stored vectors in Python. There is no vector database in this path. The implementation gives the project a small, inspectable retrieval mechanism, while leaving embedding quality and the correctness of the stored content as separate questions."]},{"heading":"Similarity opens the door, then other signals rank","figure":"memory-scoring","figureExpandable":false,"body":["The chat caller requests at most five relevant memories with a minimum cosine similarity of 0.3. The database query first restricts candidates to the requesting user and memories with embeddings. The function then scans those candidates, drops similarities below the threshold, and scores the survivors. A high importance value cannot rescue a memory that fails this similarity filter.","The score gives similarity a weight of 0.6, importance 0.3, and recency 0.1. Recency decreases with whole days since the memory was updated and reaches zero after 30 days. The age comes from updated_at, not the last time retrieval accessed the memory. Reading a memory increments separate access fields, so that accounting should not be described as making its content newly current.","The fictional example below shows why this is different from selecting the nearest vector. A moderately similar, important, recent memory can outrank the closest but older, less important candidate. Those weights encode a retrieval preference. They are implementation choices, not coefficients shown here to improve relevance on a judged dataset."]},{"heading":"The retrieval list is not the final prompt order","figure":"prompt-trace","figureExpandable":false,"body":["The view also requests up to three memories from the current conversation, ordered by importance and creation time. That branch does not use the semantic similarity threshold. The two lists are combined and deduplicated by memory ID, so a memory rejected by the similarity branch could still enter through conversation membership. Describing every included memory as a similarity match would misstate the implementation.","The formatter then sorts the combined selection again, by importance and creation time, and includes up to eight entries. It shortens each entry to at most 100 characters. Retrieval score determines one branch's selection, but it is not carried into the formatter as the final ordering rule. Truncation is another transformation: the text the model receives may be shorter than the stored memory that was selected.","Recent message history is also shortened by the prompt builder. Although the caller supplies a history-token parameter, this builder uses a recent-message and character-based policy instead. I would not describe it as enforcing the caller's token budget. To understand an answer, the useful object to inspect is the assembled prompt after these transformations, not just the original retrieval list."]},{"heading":"An inspectable path with real costs","body":["The retrieval scan grows with the number of stored memories for a user. It computes a cosine comparison for each candidate with an embedding, sorts the accepted results, and updates access metadata for selected memories. Limiting the returned list does not remove the scan. At a small scale this keeps the algorithm easy to follow, but the source alone provides no latency or capacity result.","The chat view creates a debug record containing the assembled prompt, selected-context information, model identity, and response metadata. That is a useful inspection surface because it can connect a request with what the ordinary model call actually received. It is not a quality metric. Counts of selected memories do not tell us whether they were relevant, whether an important detail was truncated, or whether the answer used them correctly.","Retrieval logs broad failures and returns an empty list. Continuing without memory may keep a request moving, but an empty result can then mean either that nothing matched or that retrieval failed. Without inspecting that distinction, a plausible answer can hide a broken memory path."]},{"heading":"Keep the agent branch separate","body":["Lifeline also implements Gmail tool calling through a LangGraph agent. That is a separate request branch. In the inspected chat view, the agent receives the current question and conversation history, without the enhanced memory prompt built for ordinary chat. Memory-related metadata can still be attached to the response, so its presence does not prove that the agent consumed the selected memories.","Ordinary chat and tool execution therefore need separate evaluation. A debug record can describe context assembled earlier in a request without establishing that a later branch received it. The consumer's actual input is the boundary that matters: in this implementation, the enhanced memory prompt reaches the ordinary text model, while the tool agent starts from the question and recent conversation."]},{"heading":"What the evidence establishes","body":["The seven-memory example checks the scoring arithmetic using invented descriptions and stipulated similarities. The separate four-memory trace goes further: it executes the original request, retrieval, deduplication and formatting code against in-memory records, then captures the argument at the model-call boundary. The source hashes, fictional inputs and exact prompt are retained. Neither example calls an embedding model, runs Django or opens a database.","The backend lifecycle probe adds real Django models, SQLite writes, request handling and JSON serialization. Original extraction and retrieval code connects the stored message pair to a memory and a later prompt. Fixed model replies and embeddings make this a wiring check. Injected extraction and memory-embedding failures leave the chat response and its messages intact without adding a memory. Another fictional user's query omits the saved preference, but the original foreign-conversation request returns a server error.","Following that defect exposed a missing ownership check on notes. A separate local repair scopes both message and note access to the conversation owner and validates content before processing. A 62-case Django/SQLite regression check, including 42 invalid-body cases, passes and was independently repeated. The same checks produce 51 failed assertions on the original API. The repair is committed on an isolated branch; it has not been merged into the original checkout or deployed as a backend service.","The historical EC2 deployment does not establish current hosted availability. This probe also leaves login, migration history, production thread scheduling and durable background work untested. The inspected source has local changes, so file hashes identify the exercised bytes separately from the base commit. Retrieval and answer quality still need judged examples and real provider evaluation. The lesson is to inspect both ends of the path: whether extraction actually saved context, and which version of that context reached the later consumer."]}]},{"slug":"whisperkey","startDate":"2025-07","endDate":"2025-08","name":"WhisperKey","summary":"A Windows system-tray hotkey dictation tool with a cloud Whisper API default and an optional fully local engine, built but never merged out of a feature branch.","description":"WhisperKey is a Windows system-tray dictation tool: hold a hotkey, speak, and the transcription lands in your clipboard or gets typed directly into whatever field has focus. Transcription runs through OpenAI's Whisper API by default, with an optional fully local engine (Vosk-based) for when audio needs to stay on the machine instead of going to a cloud API. The tray app, the GUI with transcription history and OpenAI cost tracking, and the local engine are all real, about 6,000 lines of working code, but they exist only on an unmerged feature branch. The main branch is a single README, and nothing was ever packaged or released.","status":"archived","category":"tools","context":"Personal","skills":["Speech recognition","Desktop tooling","GUI development"],"technologies":["Python","OpenAI Whisper API","Vosk","Windows"],"tags":["speech to text","dictation","tools","privacy","whisper"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/WhisperKey","confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":false,"caveats":["Lives entirely on an unmerged feature branch. The main branch is a single README, and nothing has ever been packaged or released.","The local engine is present in the code, but nothing in the commit history shows it was run end to end. Treat it as designed, not demonstrated."]},{"slug":"msk-research","startDate":"2019-07","endDate":"2020-07","name":"MSK Research","summary":"U-Net segmentation research for musculoskeletal MRI, a three-week summer exploration in Keras and TensorFlow.","description":"Research repo exploring U-Net-based segmentation on musculoskeletal MRI, built over about three weeks in the summer of 2019: a Keras/TensorFlow training pipeline, a data-augmentation pipeline, and multiple trained checkpoints. A related Django web app, msk-api, tried to put that kind of model behind a simple interface: log in, upload an image, get a result. It was built between January and July 2020 and abandoned after about five months. The login-gated upload page works, but the model was never wired in: the inference call is a two-line stub that returns nothing, and the task queue meant to control access to it never got past a note in the repo.","status":"archived","category":"healthcare-ml","context":"Personal","skills":["Medical imaging","Segmentation","Deep learning","Web development"],"technologies":["Python","Keras","TensorFlow","U-Net","Django"],"tags":["machine learning","data science","healthcare","computer vision","research","web development"],"confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":false,"caveats":["Minimal README. Image data is not checked into the repo, and no results were published from this work.","The msk-api web app never got the model working: the inference endpoint is a stub, and the task queue for controlling access to it was only ever a planned note."]},{"slug":"pacman-ai","startDate":"2023-05","endDate":"2024-01","name":"PacMan AI","summary":"A from-scratch pygame Pac-Man testbed comparing NEAT, a prioritized-replay DQN, and an abandoned CoDeepNEAT/HyperNEAT detour.","description":"A Pac-Man clone built from scratch in Python and pygame, used as a testbed for three approaches to training a game-playing agent: NEAT neuroevolution, a prioritized-replay Deep Q-Network, and a CoDeepNEAT/HyperNEAT detour that worked on CIFAR-10 but not on Pac-Man and was abandoned. The version on the main branch is a rough research prototype: the DQN script starts a 10,000-episode training run as a side effect of importing the module, the NEAT input encoding is hardcoded to a 32x32 board, and the prioritized-replay buffer has a length-tracking bug. Neither agent has been benchmarked. A full hardening pass, tests, a CLI, and real documentation exist on a remote branch that was never merged back to main.","status":"archived","category":"ml-research","context":"Personal","skills":["Neuroevolution","Reinforcement learning","Game development","Python"],"technologies":["Python","pygame","NEAT","Deep Q-Learning","Keras","TensorFlow"],"tags":["reinforcement learning","neuroevolution","neat","games","pygame","machine learning"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/PacManAI","confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":false,"caveats":["The hardened, tested, documented rewrite of this project exists on an unmerged remote branch, not on the main branch a visitor would see by cloning the repo.","Exploratory work, not a benchmark suite: neither the NEAT nor the DQN agent has a recorded evaluation run, on main or on the hardened branch."],"related":["neat-playground"]},{"slug":"ring-road","startDate":"2026-03","name":"RingRoad","summary":"A mobile extraction-shooter prototype for iOS, built in Unreal Engine 5.7 and C++.","description":"March 2026 Week 3 prototype checkpoint of a mobile extraction shooter targeting iOS: first-person control, hitscan combat, a grid inventory, looting, and multi-map switching, in Unreal Engine 5.7 and C++. About 150KB of design docs back a planned 90-day vertical slice; this is v0.2 of that plan.","status":"active","category":"games-simulation","context":"Personal","skills":["Game development","C++","Unreal Engine"],"technologies":["Unreal Engine 5.7","C++","iOS"],"tags":["games","mobile","unreal engine"],"confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":false,"caveats":["Early-stage prototype: v0.2 of a planned 90-day vertical slice. No player-facing build yet."]},{"slug":"meal-tracker","startDate":"2024-07","endDate":"2024-08","name":"Meal Tracker","summary":"A Django and React meal-tracking app built in about nine days: REST API design, JWT auth, and database modeling.","description":"A full-stack meal and macro tracker, called 'See Food' in the code, built in about nine days in July and August 2024: a Django REST Framework backend with JWT authentication and a modeled nutrition database, a React frontend, and a comprehensive test suite. The README advertises GenAI-based natural-language goal parsing, but that feature doesn't exist in the code. The goal-parsing endpoint is a stub that returns the literal value 42 for every nutrition goal, regardless of input.","status":"archived","category":"tools","context":"Personal","skills":["REST API design","Authentication","Database modeling","Testing"],"technologies":["Django","React","JWT","REST"],"tags":["tools","web development","authentication"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/MealTracker","confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":false,"caveats":["Natural-language goal parsing is advertised in the README but not implemented: the endpoint is a hardcoded stub, not a working LLM call."]},{"slug":"honest-reviewer","startDate":"2023-12","endDate":"2023-12","name":"HonestReviewer","summary":"A Django app that uploads Amazon review CSVs and flags fraud or low-helpfulness reviews via Cohere's classification API with hand-written few-shot examples.","description":"A local Django web app that uploads a CSV of Amazon product reviews and runs them through Cohere's text-classification API to flag fraudulent or low-helpfulness reviews, using a hand-written set of few-shot examples as the classifier's labels. Built in a single overnight session in December 2023: the git history is one bulk upload commit, but Django migration timestamps show the models, the classification schema, and the Cohere integration were all written in one sitting. This is a working prototype, not a deployable tool, and the classification pipeline was never run against the included dataset in a way that left a recorded result.","status":"archived","category":"tools","context":"Personal","skills":["Few-shot classification","CSV data pipelines","Web development"],"technologies":["Django","Cohere API","SQLite"],"tags":["tools","classification","nlp","fraud detection","cohere"],"confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":false,"caveats":["A Django secret key and a live-looking Cohere API key are committed to the repo in plaintext, along with the SQLite database. No .gitignore, no requirements file."]},{"slug":"chambal-awareness","startDate":"2019-12","endDate":"2020-01","name":"Chambal Awareness Website","summary":"A pro bono website for a river-restoration nonprofit in Kota, India, built in four days and deployed to Firebase.","description":"A React and Bootstrap awareness website built pro bono for an environmental organization working on Chambal river restoration in Kota, India. Built in four days and deployed to Firebase.","status":"archived","category":"tools","context":"Personal","skills":["Frontend development","Web deployment"],"technologies":["React","Bootstrap","Firebase"],"tags":["tools","web development"],"repo":"https://github.com/KaustubhLall/ChambalAwarenessWebsite","confidentiality":"public","featured":false,"hasPage":false}]}]}],["$L6","$L7"],"$L8"]}],"isPartial":false,"staleTime":300,"varyParams":null,"buildId":"3TYpllGCBeZRJDIuty3VR"}
6:["$","script","script-0",{"src":"/_next/static/chunks/2omrn8bvkt6m0.js","async":true}]
7:["$","script","script-1",{"src":"/_next/static/chunks/1lul02ydfvxsh.js","async":true}]
8:["$","$L9",null,{"children":["$","$a",null,{"name":"Next.MetadataOutlet","children":"$@b"}]}]
b:null
